Addition (usually signified by the plus symbol +) is one of the four basic operations of arithmetic, the other three being subtraction, multiplication and division. The addition of two whole numbers results in the total amount or sum of those values combined. The example in the adjacent picture shows a combination of three apples and two apples, making a total of five apples. This observation is equivalent to the mathematical expression "3 + 2 = 5" i.e., "3 add 2 is equal to 5".

Besides counting items, addition can also be defined and executed without referring to concrete objects, using abstractions called numbers instead, such as integers, real numbers and complex numbers. Addition belongs to arithmetic, a branch of mathematics. In algebra, another area of mathematics, addition can also be performed on abstract objects such as vectors and matrices.

Addition has several important properties. It is commutative, meaning that order does not matter, and it is associative, meaning that when one adds more than two numbers, the order in which addition is performed does not matter (see Summation). Repeated addition of 1 is the same as counting; addition of 0 does not change a number. Addition also obeys predictable rules concerning related operations such as subtraction and multiplication.

Performing addition is one of the simplest numerical tasks. Addition of very small numbers is accessible to toddlers; the most basic task, 1 + 1, can be performed by infants as young as five months and even some members of other animal species. In primary education, students are taught to add numbers in the decimal system, starting with single digits and progressively tackling more difficult problems. Mechanical aids range from the ancient abacus to the modern computer, where research on the most efficient implementations of addition continues to this day.

Addition is written using the plus sign "+" between the terms; that is, in infix notation. The result is expressed with an equals sign. For example,

{\displaystyle 1+1=2}1+1=2 ("one plus one equals two")
{\displaystyle 2+2=4}2 + 2 = 4 ("two plus two equals four")
{\displaystyle 1+2=3}{\displaystyle 1+2=3} ("one plus two equals three")
{\displaystyle 5+4+2=11}{\displaystyle 5+4+2=11} (see "associativity" below)
{\displaystyle 3+3+3+3=12}3 + 3 + 3 + 3 = 12 (see "multiplication" below)

Columnar addition – the numbers in the column are to be added, with the sum written below the underlined number.
There are also situations where addition is "understood" even though no symbol appears:

A whole number followed immediately by a fraction indicates the sum of the two, called a mixed number.[2] For example,
      3½ = 3 + ½ = 3.5.
This notation can cause confusion since in most other contexts juxtaposition denotes multiplication instead.[3]
The sum of a series of related numbers can be expressed through capital sigma notation, which compactly denotes iteration. For example,

The numbers or the objects to be added in general addition are collectively referred to as the terms,[4] the addends[5][6] or the summands;[7] this terminology carries over to the summation of multiple terms. This is to be distinguished from factors, which are multiplied. Some authors call the first addend the augend.[5][6] In fact, during the Renaissance, many authors did not consider the first addend an "addend" at all. Today, due to the commutative property of addition, "augend" is rarely used, and both terms are generally called addends.[8]

All of the above terminology derives from Latin. "Addition" and "add" are English words derived from the Latin verb addere, which is in turn a compound of ad "to" and dare "to give", from the Proto-Indo-European root *deh₃- "to give"; thus to add is to give to.[8] Using the gerundive suffix -nd results in "addend", "thing to be added".[a] Likewise from augere "to increase", one gets "augend", "thing to be increased".

"Sum" and "summand" derive from the Latin noun summa "the highest, the top" and associated verb summare. This is appropriate not only because the sum of two positive numbers is greater than either, but because it was common for the ancient Greeks and Romans to add upward, contrary to the modern practice of adding downward, so that a sum was literally higher than the addends.[10] Addere and summare date back at least to Boethius, if not to earlier Roman writers such as Vitruvius and Frontinus; Boethius also used several other terms for the addition operation. The later Middle English terms "adden" and "adding" were popularized by Chaucer.[11]

The plus sign "+" (Unicode:U+002B; ASCII: &#43;) is an abbreviation of the Latin word et, meaning "and".[12] It appears in mathematical works dating back to at least 1489.[13]

Possibly the most fundamental interpretation of addition lies in combining sets:

When two or more disjoint collections are combined into a single collection, the number of objects in the single collection is the sum of the numbers of objects in the original collections.
This interpretation is easy to visualize, with little danger of ambiguity. It is also useful in higher mathematics; for the rigorous definition it inspires, see Natural numbers below. However, it is not obvious how one should extend this version of addition to include fractional numbers or negative numbers.[14]

One possible fix is to consider collections of objects that can be easily divided, such as pies or, still better, segmented rods.[15] Rather than just combining collections of segments, rods can be joined end-to-end, which illustrates another conception of addition: adding not the rods but the lengths of the rods.

A second interpretation of addition comes from extending an initial length by a given length:

When an original length is extended by a given amount, the final length is the sum of the original length and the length of the extension.[16]
The sum a + b can be interpreted as a binary operation that combines a and b, in an algebraic sense, or it can be interpreted as the addition of b more units to a. Under the latter interpretation, the parts of a sum a + b play asymmetric roles, and the operation a + b is viewed as applying the unary operation +b to a.[17] Instead of calling both a and b addends, it is more appropriate to call a the augend in this case, since a plays a passive role. The unary view is also useful when discussing subtraction, because each unary addition operation has an inverse unary subtraction operation, and vice versa.

Addition is commutative, meaning that one can change the order of the terms in a sum, but still get the same result. Symbolically, if a and b are any two numbers, then

a + b = b + a.
The fact that addition is commutative is known as the "commutative law of addition" or "commutative property of addition". Some other binary operations are commutative, such as multiplication, but many others are not, such as subtraction and division.

Addition is associative, which means that when three or more numbers are added together, the order of operations does not change the result.

As an example, should the expression a + b + c be defined to mean (a + b) + c or a + (b + c)? Given that addition is associative, the choice of definition is irrelevant. For any three numbers a, b, and c, it is true that (a + b) + c = a + (b + c). For example, (1 + 2) + 3 = 3 + 3 = 6 = 1 + 5 = 1 + (2 + 3).

When addition is used together with other operations, the order of operations becomes important. In the standard order of operations, addition is a lower priority than exponentiation, nth roots, multiplication and division, but is given equal priority to subtraction.[18]

When adding zero to any number, the quantity does not change; zero is the identity element for addition, also known as the additive identity. In symbols, for any a,

a + 0 = 0 + a = a.
This law was first identified in Brahmagupta's Brahmasphutasiddhanta in 628 AD, although he wrote it as three separate laws, depending on whether a is negative, positive, or zero itself, and he used words rather than algebraic symbols. Later Indian mathematicians refined the concept; around the year 830, Mahavira wrote, "zero becomes the same as what is added to it", corresponding to the unary statement 0 + a = a. In the 12th century, Bhaskara wrote, "In the addition of cipher, or subtraction of it, the quantity, positive or negative, remains the same", corresponding to the unary statement a + 0 = a.[19]

Within the context of integers, addition of one also plays a special role: for any integer a, the integer (a + 1) is the least integer greater than a, also known as the successor of a.[20] For instance, 3 is the successor of 2 and 7 is the successor of 6. Because of this succession, the value of a + b can also be seen as the bth successor of a, making addition iterated succession. For examples, 6 + 2 is 8, because 8 is the successor of 7, which is the successor of 6, making 8 the 2nd successor of 6.

To numerically add physical quantities with units, they must be expressed with common units.[21] For example, adding 50 milliliters to 150 milliliters gives 200 milliliters. However, if a measure of 5 feet is extended by 2 inches, the sum is 62 inches, since 60 inches is synonymous with 5 feet. On the other hand, it is usually meaningless to try to add 3 meters and 4 square meters, since those units are incomparable; this sort of consideration is fundamental in dimensional analysis.

Studies on mathematical development starting around the 1980s have exploited the phenomenon of habituation: infants look longer at situations that are unexpected.[22] A seminal experiment by Karen Wynn in 1992 involving Mickey Mouse dolls manipulated behind a screen demonstrated that five-month-old infants expect 1 + 1 to be 2, and they are comparatively surprised when a physical situation seems to imply that 1 + 1 is either 1 or 3. This finding has since been affirmed by a variety of laboratories using different methodologies.[23] Another 1992 experiment with older toddlers, between 18 and 35 months, exploited their development of motor control by allowing them to retrieve ping-pong balls from a box; the youngest responded well for small numbers, while older subjects were able to compute sums up to 5.[24]

Even some nonhuman animals show a limited ability to add, particularly primates. In a 1995 experiment imitating Wynn's 1992 result (but using eggplants instead of dolls), rhesus macaque and cottontop tamarin monkeys performed similarly to human infants. More dramatically, after being taught the meanings of the Arabic numerals 0 through 4, one chimpanzee was able to compute the sum of two numerals without further training.[25] More recently, Asian elephants have demonstrated an ability to perform basic arithmetic.[26]

Typically, children first master counting. When given a problem that requires that two items and three items be combined, young children model the situation with physical objects, often fingers or a drawing, and then count the total. As they gain experience, they learn or discover the strategy of "counting-on": asked to find two plus three, children count three past two, saying "three, four, five" (usually ticking off fingers), and arriving at five. This strategy seems almost universal; children can easily pick it up from peers or teachers.[27] Most discover it independently. With additional experience, children learn to add more quickly by exploiting the commutativity of addition by counting up from the larger number, in this case starting with three and counting "four, five." Eventually children begin to recall certain addition facts ("number bonds"), either through experience or rote memorization. Once some facts are committed to memory, children begin to derive unknown facts from known ones. For example, a child asked to add six and seven may know that 6 + 6 = 12 and then reason that 6 + 7 is one more, or 13.[28] Such derived facts can be found very quickly and most elementary school students eventually rely on a mixture of memorized and derived facts to add fluently.[29]

Different nations introduce whole numbers and arithmetic at different ages, with many countries teaching addition in pre-school.[30] However, throughout the world, addition is taught by the end of the first year of elementary school.[31]

The prerequisite to addition in the decimal system is the fluent recall or derivation of the 100 single-digit "addition facts". One could memorize all the facts by rote, but pattern-based strategies are more enlightening and, for most people, more efficient:[32]

Commutative property: Mentioned above, using the pattern a + b = b + a reduces the number of "addition facts" from 100 to 55.
One or two more: Adding 1 or 2 is a basic task, and it can be accomplished through counting on or, ultimately, intuition.[32]
Zero: Since zero is the additive identity, adding zero is trivial. Nonetheless, in the teaching of arithmetic, some students are introduced to addition as a process that always increases the addends; word problems may help rationalize the "exception" of zero.[32]
Doubles: Adding a number to itself is related to counting by two and to multiplication. Doubles facts form a backbone for many related facts, and students find them relatively easy to grasp.[32]
Near-doubles: Sums such as 6 + 7 = 13 can be quickly derived from the doubles fact 6 + 6 = 12 by adding one more, or from 7 + 7 = 14 but subtracting one.[32]
Five and ten: Sums of the form 5 + x and 10 + x are usually memorized early and can be used for deriving other facts. For example, 6 + 7 = 13 can be derived from 5 + 7 = 12 by adding one more.[32]
Making ten: An advanced strategy uses 10 as an intermediate for sums involving 8 or 9; for example, 8 + 6 = 8 + 2 + 4 = 10 + 4 = 14.[32]
As students grow older, they commit more facts to memory, and learn to derive other facts rapidly and fluently. Many students never commit all the facts to memory, but can still find any basic fact quickly.[29]
Arithmetic (from the Greek ἀριθμός arithmos, 'number' and τική [τέχνη], tiké [téchne], 'art') is a branch of mathematics that consists of the study of numbers, especially the properties of the traditional operations on them—addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. Arithmetic is an elementary part of number theory, and number theory is considered to be one of the top-level divisions of modern mathematics, along with algebra, geometry, and analysis. The terms arithmetic and higher arithmetic were used until the beginning of the 20th century as synonyms for number theory and are sometimes still used to refer to a wider part of number theory.[1]

The prehistory of arithmetic is limited to a small number of artifacts which may indicate the conception of addition and subtraction, the best-known being the Ishango bone from central Africa, dating from somewhere between 20,000 and 18,000 BC, although its interpretation is disputed.[2]

The earliest written records indicate the Egyptians and Babylonians used all the elementary arithmetic operations as early as 2000 BC. These artifacts do not always reveal the specific process used for solving problems, but the characteristics of the particular numeral system strongly influence the complexity of the methods. The hieroglyphic system for Egyptian numerals, like the later Roman numerals, descended from tally marks used for counting. In both cases, this origin resulted in values that used a decimal base but did not include positional notation. Complex calculations with Roman numerals required the assistance of a counting board or the Roman abacus to obtain the results.

Early number systems that included positional notation were not decimal, including the sexagesimal (base 60) system for Babylonian numerals and the vigesimal (base 20) system that defined Maya numerals. Because of this place-value concept, the ability to reuse the same digits for different values contributed to simpler and more efficient methods of calculation.

The continuous historical development of modern arithmetic starts with the Hellenistic civilization of ancient Greece, although it originated much later than the Babylonian and Egyptian examples. Prior to the works of Euclid around 300 BC, Greek studies in mathematics overlapped with philosophical and mystical beliefs. For example, Nicomachus summarized the viewpoint of the earlier Pythagorean approach to numbers, and their relationships to each other, in his Introduction to Arithmetic.

Greek numerals were used by Archimedes, Diophantus and others in a positional notation not very different from ours. The ancient Greeks lacked a symbol for zero until the Hellenistic period, and they used three separate sets of symbols as digits: one set for the units place, one for the tens place, and one for the hundreds. For the thousands place they would reuse the symbols for the units place, and so on. Their addition algorithm was identical to ours, and their multiplication algorithm was only very slightly different. Their long division algorithm was the same, and the digit-by-digit square root algorithm, popularly used as recently as the 20th century, was known to Archimedes, who may have invented it. He preferred it to Hero's method of successive approximation because, once computed, a digit doesn't change, and the square roots of perfect squares, such as 7485696, terminate immediately as 2736. For numbers with a fractional part, such as 546.934, they used negative powers of 60 instead of negative powers of 10 for the fractional part 0.934.[3]

The ancient Chinese had advanced arithmetic studies dating from the Shang Dynasty and continuing through the Tang Dynasty, from basic numbers to advanced algebra. The ancient Chinese used a positional notation similar to that of the Greeks. Since they also lacked a symbol for zero, they had one set of symbols for the units place, and a second set for the tens place. For the hundreds place they then reused the symbols for the units place, and so on. Their symbols were based on the ancient counting rods. It is a complicated question to determine exactly when the Chinese started calculating with positional representation, but it was definitely before 400 BC.[4] The ancient Chinese were the first to meaningfully discover, understand, and apply negative numbers as explained in the Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art (Jiuzhang Suanshu), which was written by Liu Hui.

The gradual development of the Hindu–Arabic numeral system independently devised the place-value concept and positional notation, which combined the simpler methods for computations with a decimal base and the use of a digit representing 0. This allowed the system to consistently represent both large and small integers. This approach eventually replaced all other systems. In the early 6th century AD, the Indian mathematician Aryabhata incorporated an existing version of this system in his work, and experimented with different notations. In the 7th century, Brahmagupta established the use of 0 as a separate number and determined the results for multiplication, division, addition and subtraction of zero and all other numbers, except for the result of division by zero. His contemporary, the Syriac bishop Severus Sebokht (650 AD) said, "Indians possess a method of calculation that no word can praise enough. Their rational system of mathematics, or of their method of calculation. I mean the system using nine symbols."[5] The Arabs also learned this new method and called it hesab.


Leibniz's Stepped Reckoner was the first calculator that could perform all four arithmetic operations.
Although the Codex Vigilanus described an early form of Arabic numerals (omitting 0) by 976 AD, Leonardo of Pisa (Fibonacci) was primarily responsible for spreading their use throughout Europe after the publication of his book Liber Abaci in 1202. He wrote, "The method of the Indians (Latin Modus Indoram) surpasses any known method to compute. It's a marvelous method. They do their computations using nine figures and symbol zero".[6]

In the Middle Ages, arithmetic was one of the seven liberal arts taught in universities.

The flourishing of algebra in the medieval Islamic world and in Renaissance Europe was an outgrowth of the enormous simplification of computation through decimal notation.

Various types of tools have been invented and widely used to assist in numeric calculations. Before Renaissance, they were various types of abaci. More recent examples include slide rules, nomograms and mechanical calculators, such as Pascal's calculator. At present, they have been supplanted by electronic calculators and computers.

The basic arithmetic operations are addition, subtraction, multiplication and division, although this subject also includes more advanced operations, such as manipulations of percentages, square roots, exponentiation, logarithmic functions, and even trigonometric functions, in the same vein as logarithms (prosthaphaeresis). Arithmetic expressions must be evaluated according to the intended sequence of operations. There are several methods to specify this, either—most common, together with infix notation—explicitly using parentheses, and relying on precedence rules, or using a prefix or postfix notation, which uniquely fix the order of execution by themselves. Any set of objects upon which all four arithmetic operations (except division by zero) can be performed, and where these four operations obey the usual laws (including distributivity), is called a field.[7]

Addition is the most basic operation of arithmetic. In its simple form, addition combines two numbers, the addends or terms, into a single number, the sum of the numbers (such as 2 + 2 = 4 or 3 + 5 = 8).

Adding finitely many numbers can be viewed as repeated simple addition; this procedure is known as summation, a term also used to denote the definition for "adding infinitely many numbers" in an infinite series. Repeated addition of the number 1 is the most basic form of counting; the result of adding 1 is usually called the successor of the original number.

Addition is commutative and associative, so the order in which finitely many terms are added does not matter. The identity element for a binary operation is the number that, when combined with any number, yields the same number as the result. According to the rules of addition, adding 0 to any number yields that same number, so 0 is the additive identity. The inverse of a number with respect to a binary operation is the number that, when combined with any number, yields the identity with respect to this operation. So the inverse of a number with respect to addition (its additive inverse, or the opposite number) is the number that yields the additive identity, 0, when added to the original number; it is immediately obvious that this is the negative of the original number. For example, the additive inverse of 7 is −7, since 7 + (−7) = 0.

Addition can be interpreted geometrically as in the following example:

If we have two sticks of lengths 2 and 5, then, if we place the sticks one after the other, the length of the stick thus formed is 7, since 2 + 5 = 7.

Subtraction is the inverse operation to addition. Subtraction finds the difference between two numbers, the minuend minus the subtrahend: D = M - S. Resorting to the previously established addition, this is to say that the difference is the number that, when added to the subtrahend, results in the minuend: D + S = M.

For positive arguments M and S holds:

If the minuend is larger than the subtrahend, the difference D is positive.
If the minuend is smaller than the subtrahend, the difference D is negative.
In any case, if minuend and subtrahend are equal, the difference D = 0.

Subtraction is neither commutative nor associative. For that reason, in modern algebra the construction of this inverse operation is often discarded in favor of introducing the concept of inverse elements, as sketched under Addition, and to look at subtraction as adding the additive inverse of the subtrahend to the minuend, that is a − b = a + (−b). The immediate price of discarding the binary operation of subtraction is the introduction of the (trivial) unary operation, delivering the additive inverse for any given number, and losing the immediate access to the notion of difference, which is potentially misleading when negative arguments are involved.

For any representation of numbers there are methods for calculating results, some of which are particularly advantageous in exploiting procedures, existing for one operation, by small alterations also for others. For example, digital computers can reuse existing adding-circuitry and save additional circuits for implementing a subtraction by employing the method of two's complement for representing the additive inverses, which is extremely easy to implement in hardware (negation). The trade-off is the halving of the number range for a fixed word length.

A formerly wide spread method to achieve a correct change amount, knowing the due and given amounts, is the counting up method, which does not explicitly generate the value of the difference. Suppose an amount P is given in order to pay the required amount Q, with P greater than Q. Rather than explicitly performing the subtraction P − Q = C and counting out that amount C in change, money is counted out starting with the successor of Q, and continuing in the steps of the currency, until P is reached. Although the amount counted out must equal the result of the subtraction P − Q, the subtraction was never really done and the value of P − Q is not supplied by this method.

Multiplication is the second basic operation of arithmetic. Multiplication also combines two numbers into a single number, the product. The two original numbers are called the multiplier and the multiplicand, mostly both are simply called factors.

Multiplication may be viewed as a scaling operation. If the numbers are imagined as lying in a line, multiplication by a number, say x, greater than 1 is the same as stretching everything away from 0 uniformly, in such a way that the number 1 itself is stretched to where x was. Similarly, multiplying by a number less than 1 can be imagined as squeezing towards 0. (Again, in such a way that 1 goes to the multiplicand.)

Another view on multiplication of integer numbers, extendable to rationals, but not very accessible for real numbers, is by considering it as repeated addition. So 3 × 4 corresponds to either adding 3 times a 4, or 4 times a 3, giving the same result. There are different opinions on the advantageousness of these paradigmata in math education.

Multiplication is commutative and associative; further, it is distributive over addition and subtraction. The multiplicative identity is 1, since multiplying any number by 1 yields that same number. The multiplicative inverse for any number except 0 is the reciprocal of this number, because multiplying the reciprocal of any number by the number itself yields the multiplicative identity 1. 0 is the only number without a multiplicative inverse, and the result of multiplying any number and 0 is again 0. One says that 0 is not contained in the multiplicative group of the numbers.

The product of a and b is written as a × b or a·b. When a or b are expressions not written simply with digits, it is also written by simple juxtaposition: ab. In computer programming languages and software packages in which one can only use characters normally found on a keyboard, it is often written with an asterisk: a * b.

Algorithms implementing the operation of multiplication for various representations of numbers are by far more costly and laborious than those for addition. Those accessible for manual computation either rely on breaking down the factors to single place values and apply repeated addition, or employ tables or slide rules, thereby mapping the multiplication to addition and back. These methods are outdated and replaced by mobile devices. Computers utilize diverse sophisticated and highly optimized algorithms to implement multiplication and division for the various number formats supported in their system.

Division is essentially the inverse operation to multiplication. Division finds the quotient of two numbers, the dividend divided by the divisor. Any dividend divided by zero is undefined. For distinct positive numbers, if the dividend is larger than the divisor, the quotient is greater than 1, otherwise it is less than 1 (a similar rule applies for negative numbers). The quotient multiplied by the divisor always yields the dividend.

Division is neither commutative nor associative. So as explained for subtraction, in modern algebra the construction of the division is discarded in favor of constructing the inverse elements with respect to multiplication, as introduced there. That is, division is a multiplication with the dividend and the reciprocal of the divisor as factors, that is a ÷ b = a × 
1
/
b
.

Within natural numbers there is also a different, but related notion, the Euclidean division, giving two results of "dividing" a natural N (numerator) by a natural D (denominator), first, a natural Q (quotient) and second, a natural R (remainder), such that N = D×Q + R and R < Q.

The fundamental theorem of arithmetic states that any integer greater than 1 has a unique prime factorization (a representation of a number as the product of prime factors), excluding the order of the factors. For example, 252 only has one prime factorization:

252 = 22 × 32 × 71
Euclid's Elements first introduced this theorem, and gave a partial proof (which is called Euclid's lemma). The fundamental theorem of arithmetic was first proven by Carl Friedrich Gauss.

The fundamental theorem of arithmetic is one of the reasons why 1 is not considered a prime number. Other reasons include the sieve of Eratosthenes, and the definition of a prime number itself (a natural number greater than 1 that cannot be formed by multiplying two smaller natural numbers.).

Decimal representation refers exclusively, in common use, to the written numeral system employing arabic numerals as the digits for a radix 10 ("decimal") positional notation; however, any numeral system based on powers of 10, e.g., Greek, Cyrillic, Roman, or Chinese numerals may conceptually be described as "decimal notation" or "decimal representation".

Modern methods for four fundamental operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication and division) were first devised by Brahmagupta of India. This was known during medieval Europe as "Modus Indoram" or Method of the Indians. Positional notation (also known as "place-value notation") refers to the representation or encoding of numbers using the same symbol for the different orders of magnitude (e.g., the "ones place", "tens place", "hundreds place") and, with a radix point, using those same symbols to represent fractions (e.g., the "tenths place", "hundredths place"). For example, 507.36 denotes 5 hundreds (102), plus 0 tens (101), plus 7 units (100), plus 3 tenths (10−1) plus 6 hundredths (10−2).

The concept of 0 as a number comparable to the other basic digits is essential to this notation, as is the concept of 0's use as a placeholder, and as is the definition of multiplication and addition with 0. The use of 0 as a placeholder and, therefore, the use of a positional notation is first attested to in the Jain text from India entitled the Lokavibhâga, dated 458 AD and it was only in the early 13th century that these concepts, transmitted via the scholarship of the Arabic world, were introduced into Europe by Fibonacci[8] using the Hindu–Arabic numeral system.

Algorism comprises all of the rules for performing arithmetic computations using this type of written numeral. For example, addition produces the sum of two arbitrary numbers. The result is calculated by the repeated addition of single digits from each number that occupies the same position, proceeding from right to left. An addition table with ten rows and ten columns displays all possible values for each sum. If an individual sum exceeds the value 9, the result is represented with two digits. The rightmost digit is the value for the current position, and the result for the subsequent addition of the digits to the left increases by the value of the second (leftmost) digit, which is always one (if not zero). This adjustment is termed a carry of the value 1.

The process for multiplying two arbitrary numbers is similar to the process for addition. A multiplication table with ten rows and ten columns lists the results for each pair of digits. If an individual product of a pair of digits exceeds 9, the carry adjustment increases the result of any subsequent multiplication from digits to the left by a value equal to the second (leftmost) digit, which is any value from 1 to 8 (9 × 9 = 81). Additional steps define the final result.

Similar techniques exist for subtraction and division.

The creation of a correct process for multiplication relies on the relationship between values of adjacent digits. The value for any single digit in a numeral depends on its position. Also, each position to the left represents a value ten times larger than the position to the right. In mathematical terms, the exponent for the radix (base) of 10 increases by 1 (to the left) or decreases by 1 (to the right). Therefore, the value for any arbitrary digit is multiplied by a value of the form 10n with integer n. The list of values corresponding to all possible positions for a single digit is written as {..., 102, 10, 1, 10−1, 10−2, ...}.

Repeated multiplication of any value in this list by 10 produces another value in the list. In mathematical terminology, this characteristic is defined as closure, and the previous list is described as closed under multiplication. It is the basis for correctly finding the results of multiplication using the previous technique. This outcome is one example of the uses of number theory.

Compound[9] unit arithmetic is the application of arithmetic operations to mixed radix quantities such as feet and inches; gallons and pints; pounds, shillings and pence; and so on. Before decimal-based systems of money and units of measure, compound unit arithmetic was widely used in commerce and industry.

The techniques used in compound unit arithmetic were developed over many centuries and are well documented in many textbooks in many different languages.[10][11][12][13] In addition to the basic arithmetic functions encountered in decimal arithmetic, compound unit arithmetic employs three more functions:

Reduction, in which a compound quantity is reduced to a single quantity—for example, conversion of a distance expressed in yards, feet and inches to one expressed in inches.[14]
Expansion, the inverse function to reduction, is the conversion of a quantity that is expressed as a single unit of measure to a compound unit, such as expanding 24 oz to 1 lb 8 oz.
Normalization is the conversion of a set of compound units to a standard form—for example, rewriting "1 ft 13 in" as "2 ft 1 in".
Knowledge of the relationship between the various units of measure, their multiples and their submultiples forms an essential part of compound unit arithmetic.

There are two basic approaches to compound unit arithmetic:

Reduction–expansion method where all the compound unit variables are reduced to single unit variables, the calculation performed and the result expanded back to compound units. This approach is suited for automated calculations. A typical example is the handling of time by Microsoft Excel where all time intervals are processed internally as days and decimal fractions of a day.
On-going normalization method in which each unit is treated separately and the problem is continuously normalized as the solution develops. This approach, which is widely described in classical texts, is best suited for manual calculations. An example of the ongoing normalization method as applied to addition is shown below.

The addition operation is carried out from right to left; in this case, pence are processed first, then shillings followed by pounds. The numbers below the "answer line" are intermediate results.

The total in the pence column is 25. Since there are 12 pennies in a shilling, 25 is divided by 12 to give 2 with a remainder of 1. The value "1" is then written to the answer row and the value "2" carried forward to the shillings column. This operation is repeated using the values in the shillings column, with the additional step of adding the value that was carried forward from the pennies column. The intermediate total is divided by 20 as there are 20 shillings in a pound. The pound column is then processed, but as pounds are the largest unit that is being considered, no values are carried forward from the pounds column.

For the sake of simplicity, the example chosen did not have farthings.

During the 19th and 20th centuries various aids were developed to aid the manipulation of compound units, particularly in commercial applications. The most common aids were mechanical tills which were adapted in countries such as the United Kingdom to accommodate pounds, shillings, pennies and farthings and "Ready Reckoners"—books aimed at traders that catalogued the results of various routine calculations such as the percentages or multiples of various sums of money. One typical booklet[15] that ran to 150 pages tabulated multiples "from one to ten thousand at the various prices from one farthing to one pound".

The cumbersome nature of compound unit arithmetic has been recognized for many years—in 1586, the Flemish mathematician Simon Stevin published a small pamphlet called De Thiende ("the tenth")[16] in which he declared the universal introduction of decimal coinage, measures, and weights to be merely a question of time. In the modern era, many conversion programs, such as that included in the Microsoft Windows 7 operating system calculator, display compound units in a reduced decimal format rather than using an expanded format (e.g. "2.5 ft" is displayed rather than "2 ft 6 in").

Until the 19th century, number theory was a synonym of "arithmetic". The addressed problems were directly related to the basic operations and concerned primality, divisibility, and the solution of equations in integers, such as Fermat's last theorem. It appeared that most of these problems, although very elementary to state, are very difficult and may not be solved without very deep mathematics involving concepts and methods from many other branches of mathematics. This led to new branches of number theory such as analytic number theory, algebraic number theory, Diophantine geometry and arithmetic algebraic geometry. Wiles' proof of Fermat's Last Theorem is a typical example of the necessity of sophisticated methods, which go far beyond the classical methods of arithmetic, for solving problems that can be stated in elementary arithmetic.

Primary education in mathematics often places a strong focus on algorithms for the arithmetic of natural numbers, integers, fractions, and decimals (using the decimal place-value system). This study is sometimes known as algorism.

The difficulty and unmotivated appearance of these algorithms has long led educators to question this curriculum, advocating the early teaching of more central and intuitive mathematical ideas. One notable movement in this direction was the New Math of the 1960s and 1970s, which attempted to teach arithmetic in the spirit of axiomatic development from set theory, an echo of the prevailing trend in higher mathematics.[17]

Also, arithmetic was used by Islamic Scholars in order to teach application of the rulings related to Zakat and Irth. This was done in a book entitled The Best of Arithmetic by Abd-al-Fattah-al-Dumyati.[18]

The book begins with the foundations of mathematics and proceeds to its application in the later chapters.

The decimal numeral system (also called base-ten positional numeral system, and occasionally called denary or decanary) is the standard system for denoting integer and non-integer numbers. It is the extension to non-integer numbers of the Hindu–Arabic numeral system. The way of denoting numbers in the decimal system is often referred to as decimal notation. A decimal numeral, or just decimal, or casually decimal number, refers generally to the notation of a number in the decimal numeral system. Decimals may sometimes be identified for containing a decimal separator (for example the "." in 10.00 or 3.14159). "Decimal" may also refer specifically to the digits after the decimal separator, such as in "3.14 is the approximation of π to two decimals". The numbers that may be represented in the decimal system are the decimal fractions, that is the fractions of the form a/10n, where a is an integer, and n is a non-negative integer. The decimal system has been extended to infinite decimals, for representing any real number, by using an infinite sequence of digits after the decimal separator (see Decimal representation). In this context, the decimal numerals with a finite number of non–zero places after the decimal separator are sometimes called terminating decimals. A repeating decimal is an infinite decimal that after some place repeats indefinitely the same sequence of digits (for example 5.123144144144144... = 5.123144). An infinite decimal represents a rational number if and only if it is a repeating decimal or has a finite number of nonzero digits. Many numeral systems of ancient civilizations use ten and its powers for representing numbers, possibly because there are ten fingers on two hands and people started counting by using their fingers. Examples are Brahmi numerals, Greek numerals, Hebrew numerals, Roman numerals, and Chinese numerals. Very large numbers were difficult to represent in these old numeral systems, and only the best mathematicians were able to multiply or divide large numbers. These difficulties were completely solved with the introduction of the Hindu–Arabic numeral system for representing integers. This system has been extended to represent some non-integer numbers, called decimal fractions or decimal numbers for forming the decimal numeral system. For writing numbers, the decimal system uses ten decimal digits, a decimal mark, and, for negative numbers, a minus sign "−". The decimal digits are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9; the decimal separator is the dot "." in many countries, but is a comma "," in other countries. For representing a non-negative number, a decimal consists of either a (finite) sequence of digits such as 2017, or in full generality, or two sequence of digits separated by a decimal mark such as 3.14159 (π), 2.71828 (e), 15.00, or in full generality. It is generally assumed that, if m > 0, the first digit am is not zero, but, in some circumstances, it may be useful to have one or more 0's on the left. This does not change the value represented by the decimal. For example, 3.14 = 03.14 = 003.14. Similarly, if bn =0, it may be removed, and conversely, trailing zeros may be added without changing the represented number: for example, 15 = 15.0 = 15.00 and 5.2 = 5.20 = 5.200 . Sometimes the extra zeros are used for indicating the accuracy of a measurement. For example, 15.00 m may indicate that the measurement error is less than one centimeter (0.01 m), while 15 m may mean that the length is roughly fifteen meters, and that the error may exceed 10 cm. For representing a negative number, a minus sign is placed before am. Therefore, the contribution of each digit to the value of a number depends on its position in the numeral. That is, the decimal system is a positional numeral system. The numbers that are represented by decimal numerals are the decimal fractions (sometimes called decimal numbers), that is, the rational numbers that may be expressed as a fraction whose denominator is a power of ten. For example, the numerals represent the fractions. More generally, a decimal with n digits after the separator represents the fraction with denominator 10n, whose numerator is the integer obtained by removing the separator. Expressed as a fully reduced fraction, the decimal numbers are those whose denominator is a product of a power of 2 and a power of 5. The integer part or integral part of a decimal is the integer written to the left of the decimal separator (see also truncation). For a non-negative decimal, it is the largest integer that is not greater than the decimal. The part from the decimal separator to the right is the fractional part, which equals the difference between the numeral and its integer part. When the integral part of a numeral is zero, it may occur, typically in computing, that the integer part is not written (for example .1234, instead of 0.1234). In normal writing, this is generally avoided because of the risk of confusion between the decimal mark and other punctuation. Decimal numerals do not allow an exact representation for all real numbers, e.g. for the real number π. Nevertheless, they allow approximating every real number with any desired accuracy, e.g., the decimal 3.14159 approximates the real π, being less than 10−5 off; and so decimals are widely used in science, engineering and everyday life. More precisely, for every real number x, and every positive integer n, there are two decimals L and u, with at most n digits after the decimal mark, such that L ≤ x ≤ u and (u – L) = 10−n. Numbers are very often obtained as the result of a measurement. As measurements are generally afflicted with some measurement error with a known upper bound, the result of a measurement is well represented by a decimal with n digits after the decimal mark, as soon as the absolute measurement error is bounded from above by 10−n. In practice, measurement results are often given with a certain number of digits after the decimal point, which indicate the error bounds. For example, although 0.080 and 0.08 denote the same decimal number, the numeral 0.080 suggests a measurement with an error less than 0.001, while the numeral 0.08 indicates an absolute error bounded by 0.01. In both cases, the true value of the measured quantity could be, for example, 0.0803 or 0.0796 (see also significant figures). For a real number x and an integer n ≥ 0, let [x]n denote the (finite) decimal expansion of the greatest number that is not greater than x, which has exactly n digits after the decimal mark. Let di denote the last digit of [x]i. It is straightforward to see that [x]n may be obtained by appending dn to the right of [x]n–1. This way one has [x]n = [x]0.d1d2...dn−1dn, and the difference of [x]n–1 and [x]n amounts to |[x]n − [x]n–1| = dn ⋅ 10−n < 10−n+1, which is either 0, if dn = 0, or gets arbitrarily small, when n tends to infinity. According to the definition of a limit, x is the limit of [x]n when n tends to infinity, which is called an infinite decimal expansion of x. Conversely, for any integer [x]0 and any sequence of digits, the (infinite) expression [x]0.d1d2...dn... is an infinite decimal expansion of a real number x. This expansion is unique if neither all dn are equal to 9 nor all dn are equal to 0 for n large enough (for all n greater than some natural number N). If all dn for n > N equal to 9 and [x]n = [x]0.d1d2...dn, the limit of the sequence is the decimal fraction obtained by replacing the last digit that is not a 9, i.e.: dN, by dN + 1, and replacing all subsequent 9s by 0s (see 0.999...). Any such decimal fraction, i.e., dn = 0 for n > N, may be converted to its equivalent infinite decimal expansion by replacing dN by dN − 1, and replacing all subsequent 0s by 9s (see 0.999...). In summary, every real number that is not a decimal fraction has a unique infinite decimal expansion. Each decimal fraction has exactly two infinite decimal expansions, one containing only 0s after some place, which is obtained by the above definition of [x]n, and the other containing only 9s after some place, which is obtained by defining [x]n as the greatest number that is less than x, having exactly n digits after the decimal mark. stops eventually, producing a decimal numeral, which may be prolongated into an infinite expansion by adding infinitely many zeros. If the rational number is not a decimal fraction, the division may continue indefinitely. However, as all successive remainders are less than the divisor, there are only a finite number of possible remainders, and after some place, the same sequence of digits must be repeated indefinitely in the quotient. That is, one has a repeating decimal. For example, 1/81=0. 012345679 012... (with the group 012345679 indefinitely repeating). Conversely, every eventually repeating sequence of digits is the infinite decimal expansion of a rational number. This is a consequence of the fact that the recurring part of a decimal representation is, in fact, an infinite geometric series which will sum to a rational number. Most modern computer hardware and software systems commonly use a binary representation internally (although many early computers, such as the ENIAC or the IBM 650, used decimal representation internally). For external use by computer specialists, this binary representation is sometimes presented in the related octal or hexadecimal systems. For most purposes, however, binary values are converted to or from the equivalent decimal values for presentation to or input from humans; computer programs express literals in decimal by default. (123.1, for example, is written as such in a computer program, even though many computer languages are unable to encode that number precisely.) Both computer hardware and software also use internal representations which are effectively decimal for storing decimal values and doing arithmetic. Often this arithmetic is done on data which are encoded using some variant of binary-coded decimal, especially in database implementations, but there are other decimal representations in use (including decimal floating point such as in newer revisions of the IEEE 754 Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic). Decimal arithmetic is used in computers so that decimal fractional results of adding (or subtracting) values with a fixed length of their fractional part always are computed to this same length of precision. This is especially important for financial calculations, e.g., requiring in their results integer multiples of the smallest currency unit for book keeping purposes. This is not possible in binary, because the negative powers of 10 have no finite binary fractional representation; and is generally impossible for multiplication (or division). See Arbitrary-precision arithmetic for exact calculations. Many ancient cultures calculated with numerals based on ten, sometimes argued due to human hands typically having ten digits. Standardized weights used in the Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300–1300 BCE) were based on the ratios: 1/20, 1/10, 1/5, 1/2, 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 200, and 500, while their standardized ruler – the Mohenjo-daro ruler – was divided into ten equal parts. Egyptian hieroglyphs, in evidence since around 3000 BCE, used a purely decimal system, as did the Cretan hieroglyphs (c. 1625−1500 BCE) of the Minoans whose numerals are closely based on the Egyptian model. The decimal system was handed down to the consecutive Bronze Age cultures of Greece, including Linear A (c. 18th century BCE−1450 BCE) and Linear B (c. 1375−1200 BCE) – the number system of classical Greece also used powers of ten, including, Roman numerals, an intermediate base of 5. Notably, the polymath Archimedes (c. 287–212 BCE) invented a decimal positional system in his Sand Reckoner which was based on 108 and later led the German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss to lament what heights science would have already reached in his days if Archimedes had fully realized the potential of his ingenious discovery. Hittite hieroglyphs (since 15th century BCE) were also.strictly decimal. Some non-mathematical ancient texts like the Vedas, dating back to 1900–1700 BCE make use of decimals and mathematical decimal fractions. The Egyptian hieratic numerals, the Greek alphabet numerals, the Hebrew alphabet numerals, the Roman numerals, the Chinese numerals and early Indian Brahmi numerals are all non-positional decimal systems, and required large numbers of symbols. For instance, Egyptian numerals used different symbols for 10, 20, to 90, 100, 200, to 900, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, to 10,000. The world's earliest positional decimal system was the Chinese rod calculus. A method of expressing every possible natural number using a set of ten symbols emerged in India. Several Indian languages show a straightforward decimal system. Many Indo-Aryan and Dravidian languages have numbers between 10 and 20 expressed in a regular pattern of addition to 10. The Hungarian language also uses a straightforward decimal system. All numbers between 10 and 20 are formed regularly (e.g. 11 is expressed as "tizenegy" literally "one on ten"), as with those between 20 and 100 (23 as "huszonhárom" = "three on twenty"). A straightforward decimal rank system with a word for each order (10 十, 100 百, 1000 千, 10,000 万), and in which 11 is expressed as ten-one and 23 as two-ten-three, and 89,345 is expressed as 8 (ten thousands) 万 9 (thousand) 千 3 (hundred) 百 4 (tens) 十 5 is found in Chinese, and in Vietnamese with a few irregularities. Japanese, Korean, and Thai have imported the Chinese decimal system. Many other languages with a decimal system have special words for the numbers between 10 and 20, and decades. For example, in English 11 is "eleven" not "ten-one" or "one-teen". Incan languages such as Quechua and Aymara have an almost straightforward decimal system, in which 11 is expressed as ten with one and 23 as two-ten with three. Some psychologists suggest irregularities of the English names of numerals may hinder children's counting ability.Division is one of the four basic operations of arithmetic, the ways that numbers are combined to make new numbers. The other operations are addition, subtraction, and multiplication (which can be viewed as the inverse of division). The division sign ÷, a symbol consisting of a short horizontal line with a dot above and another dot below, is often used to indicate mathematical division. This usage, though widespread in anglophone countries, is neither universal nor recommended: the ISO 80000-2 standard for mathematical notation recommends only the solidus / or fraction bar for division, or the colon for ratios; it says that this symbol "should not be used" for division.[1]

At an elementary level the division of two natural numbers is – among other possible interpretations – the process of calculating the number of times one number is contained within another one.[2]:7 This number of times is not always an integer (a number that can be obtained using the other arithmetic operations on the natural numbers), which led to two different concepts.[citation needed]

The division with remainder or Euclidean division of two natural numbers provides a quotient, which is the number of times the second one is contained in the first one, and a remainder, which is the part of the first number that remains, when in the course of computing the quotient, no further full chunk of the size of the second number can be allocated.

For a modification of this division to yield only one single result, the natural numbers must be extended to rational numbers (the numbers that can be obtained by using arithmetic on natural numbers) or real numbers. In these enlarged number systems, division is the inverse operation to multiplication, that is a = c / b means a × b = c, as long as b is not zero. If b = 0, then this is a division by zero, which is not defined.[a][5]:246

Both forms of division appear in various algebraic structures, different ways of defining mathematical structure. Those in which a Euclidean division (with remainder) is defined are called Euclidean domains and include polynomial rings in one indeterminate (which define multiplication and addition over single-variabled formulas). Those in which a division (with a single result) by all nonzero elements is defined are called fields and division rings. In a ring the elements by which division is always possible are called the units (for example, 1 and –1 in the ring of integers). Another generalization of division to algebraic structures is the quotient group, in which the result of 'division' is a group rather than a number.


Contents
1	Introduction
2	Notation
3	Computing
3.1	Manual methods
3.2	By computer or with computer assistance
4	Division in different contexts
4.1	Euclidean division
4.2	Of integers
4.3	Of rational numbers
4.4	Of real numbers
4.5	Of complex numbers
4.6	Of polynomials
4.7	Of matrices
4.7.1	Left and right division
4.7.2	Pseudoinverse
4.8	Abstract algebra
4.9	Calculus
5	Division by zero
6	See also
7	Notes
8	References
9	External links
Introduction
The simplest way of viewing division is in terms of quotition and partition: from the quotition perspective, 20 / 5 means the number of 5s that must be added to get 20. In terms of partition, 20 / 5 means the size of each of 5 parts into which a set of size 20 is divided. For example, 20 apples divide into five groups of four apples, meaning that twenty divided by five is equal to four. This is denoted as 20 / 5 = 4, or 
20
/
5
 = 4.[3] What is being divided is called the dividend, which is divided by the divisor, and the result is called the quotient. In the example, 20 is the dividend, 5 is the divisor, and 4 is the quotient.

Unlike the other basic operations, when dividing natural numbers there is sometimes a remainder that will not go evenly into the dividend; for example, 10 / 3 leaves a remainder of 1, as 10 is not a multiple of 3. Sometimes this remainder is added to the quotient as a fractional part, so 10 / 3 is equal to 3+
1
/
3
 or 3.33..., but in the context of integer division, where numbers have no fractional part, the remainder is kept separately (exceptionally, discarded or rounded).[6] When the remainder is kept as a fraction, it leads to a rational number. The set of all rational numbers is created by extending the integers with all possible results of divisions of integers.

Unlike multiplication and addition, Division is not commutative, meaning that a / b is not always equal to b / a.[7] Division is also not, in general, associative, meaning that when dividing multiple times, the order of division can change the result.[8] For example, (20 / 5) / 2 = 2, but 20 / (5 / 2) = 8 (where the use of parentheses indicates that the operations inside parentheses are performed before the operations outside parentheses).

However, division is traditionally considered as left-associative. That is, if there are multiple divisions in a row, the order of calculation goes from left to right:[9][10]

{\displaystyle a/b/c=(a/b)/c=a/(b\times c)\neq a/(b/c)=(a\times c)/b.}{\displaystyle a/b/c=(a/b)/c=a/(b\times c)\neq a/(b/c)=(a\times c)/b.}
Division is right-distributive over addition and subtraction, in the sense that

{\displaystyle {\frac {a\pm b}{c}}=(a\pm b)/c=(a/c)\pm (b/c){\frac {a}{c}}\pm {\frac {b}{c}}.}{\displaystyle {\frac {a\pm b}{c}}=(a\pm b)/c=(a/c)\pm (b/c){\frac {a}{c}}\pm {\frac {b}{c}}.}
This is the same for multiplication, as {\displaystyle (a+b)\times c=a\times c+b\times c}(a+b)\times c=a\times c+b\times c. However, division is not left-distributive, as

{\displaystyle {\frac {a}{b+c}}=a/(b+c)\neq (a/b)+(a/c)={\frac {ac+bd}{bc}}.}{\displaystyle {\frac {a}{b+c}}=a/(b+c)\neq (a/b)+(a/c)={\frac {ac+bd}{bc}}.}
This is unlike the case in multiplication, which is both left-distributive and right-distributive, and thus distributive.

Notation

Plus and minuses. An obelus used as a variant of the minus sign in an excerpt from an official Norwegian trading statement form called «Næringsoppgave 1» for the taxation year 2010.
Division is often shown in algebra and science by placing the dividend over the divisor with a horizontal line, also called a fraction bar, between them. For example, "a divided by b" can written as:

{\displaystyle {\frac {a}{b}}}{\frac {a}{b}}
which can also be read out loud as "divide a by b" or "a over b". A way to express division all on one line is to write the dividend (or numerator), then a slash, then the divisor (or denominator), as follows:

{\displaystyle a/b}a/b
This is the usual way of specifying division in most computer programming languages, since it can easily be typed as a simple sequence of ASCII characters. Some mathematical software, such as MATLAB and GNU Octave, allows the operands to be written in the reverse order by using the backslash as the division operator:

{\displaystyle b\backslash a}b\backslash a
A typographical variation halfway between these two forms uses a solidus (fraction slash), but elevates the dividend and lowers the divisor:

{\displaystyle {}^{a}/{}_{b}}{\displaystyle {}^{a}/{}_{b}}
Any of these forms can be used to display a fraction. A fraction is a division expression where both dividend and divisor are integers (typically called the numerator and denominator), and there is no implication that the division must be evaluated further. A second way to show division is to use the division sign (÷, also known as obelus though the term has additional meanings), common in arithmetic, in this manner:

{\displaystyle a\div b}a\div b
This form is infrequent except in elementary arithmetic. ISO 80000-2-9.6 states it should not be used. This division sign is also used alone to represent the division operation itself, as for instance as a label on a key of a calculator. The obelus was introduced by Swiss mathematician Johann Rahn in 1659 in Teutsche Algebra.[11]:211 The ÷ symbol is used to indicate subtraction in some European countries, so its use may be misunderstood.

In some non-English-speaking countries, a colon is used to denote division:[12]

{\displaystyle a:b}a:b
This notation was introduced by Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz in his 1684 Acta eruditorum.[11]:295 Leibniz disliked having separate symbols for ratio and division. However, in English usage the colon is restricted to expressing the related concept of ratios.

Since the 19th century, US textbooks have used {\displaystyle b)a}{\displaystyle b)a} or {\displaystyle b{\overline {)a}}}b{\overline {)a}} to denote a divided by b, especially when discussing long division. The history of this notation is not entirely clear because it evolved over time.[13]

Computing
Main articles: Long division and Division algorithm
Manual methods
Division is often introduced through the notion of "sharing out" a set of objects, for example a pile of lollies, into a number of equal portions. Distributing the objects several at a time in each round of sharing to each portion leads to the idea of 'chunking' – a form of division where one repeatedly subtracts multiples of the divisor from the dividend itself.

By allowing one to subtract more multiples than what the partial remainder allows at a given stage, more flexible methods, such as the bidirectional variant of chunking, can be developed as well.[14]

More systematic and more efficient (but also more formalised, more rule-based, and more removed from an overall holistic picture of what division is achieving), a person who knows the multiplication tables can divide two integers with pencil and paper using the method of short division, if the divisor is small, or long division, if the divisor is larger. If the dividend has a fractional part (expressed as a decimal fraction), one can continue the algorithm past the ones place as far as desired. If the divisor has a fractional part, one can restate the problem by moving the decimal to the right in both numbers until the divisor has no fraction.

A person can calculate division with an abacus by repeatedly placing the dividend on the abacus, and then subtracting the divisor the offset of each digit in the result, counting the number of divisions possible at each offset.[15]

A person can use logarithm tables to divide two numbers, by subtracting the two numbers' logarithms, then looking up the antilogarithm of the result.

A person can calculate division with a slide rule by aligning the divisor on the C scale with the dividend on the D scale. The quotient can be found on the D scale where it is aligned with the left index on the C scale. The user is responsible, however, for mentally keeping track of the decimal point.

By computer or with computer assistance
Modern computers compute division by methods that are faster than long division, with the more efficient ones relying on approximation techniques from numerical analysis. For division with remainder, see Division algorithm.

In modular arithmetic (modulo a prime number) and for real numbers, nonzero numbers have a multiplicative inverse. In these cases, a division by x may be computed as the product by the multiplicative inverse of x. This approach is often associated with the faster methods in computer arithmetic.

Division in different contexts
Euclidean division
Main article: Euclidean division
The Euclidean division is the mathematical formulation of the outcome of the usual process of division of integers. It asserts that, given two integers, a, the dividend, and b, the divisor, such that b ≠ 0, there are unique integers q, the quotient, and r, the remainder, such that a = bq + r and 0 ≤ r < |b|, where |b| denotes the absolute value of b.

Of integers
Integers are not closed under division. Apart from division by zero being undefined, the quotient is not an integer unless the dividend is an integer multiple of the divisor. For example, 26 cannot be divided by 11 to give an integer. Such a case uses one of five approaches:

Say that 26 cannot be divided by 11; division becomes a partial function.
Give an approximate answer as a "real" number. This is the approach usually taken in numerical computation.
Give the answer as a fraction representing a rational number, so the result of the division of 26 by 11 is {\displaystyle {\tfrac {26}{11}}}{\tfrac {26}{11}} (or as a mixed number, so {\displaystyle {\tfrac {26}{11}}=2{\tfrac {4}{11}}.}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {26}{11}}=2{\tfrac {4}{11}}.}) Usually the resulting fraction should be simplified: the result of the division of 52 by 22 is also {\displaystyle {\tfrac {26}{11}}}{\tfrac {26}{11}}. This simplification may be done by factoring out the greatest common divisor.
Give the answer as an integer quotient and a remainder, so {\displaystyle {\tfrac {26}{11}}=2{\mbox{ remainder }}4.}{\tfrac {26}{11}}=2{\mbox{ remainder }}4. To make the distinction with the previous case, this division, with two integers as result, is sometimes called Euclidean division, because it is the basis of the Euclidean algorithm.
Give the integer quotient as the answer, so {\displaystyle {\tfrac {26}{11}}=2.}{\tfrac {26}{11}}=2. This is sometimes called integer division.
Dividing integers in a computer program requires special care. Some programming languages, such as C, treat integer division as in case 5 above, so the answer is an integer. Other languages, such as MATLAB and every computer algebra system return a rational number as the answer, as in case 3 above. These languages also provide functions to get the results of the other cases, either directly or from the result of case 3.

Names and symbols used for integer division include div, /, \, and %. Definitions vary regarding integer division when the dividend or the divisor is negative: rounding may be toward zero (so called T-division) or toward −∞ (F-division); rarer styles can occur – see Modulo operation for the details.

Divisibility rules can sometimes be used to quickly determine whether one integer divides exactly into another.

Of rational numbers
The result of dividing two rational numbers is another rational number when the divisor is not 0. The division of two rational numbers p/q and r/s can be computed as

{\displaystyle {p/q \over r/s}={p \over q}\times {s \over r}={ps \over qr}.}{p/q \over r/s}={p \over q}\times {s \over r}={ps \over qr}.
All four quantities are integers, and only p may be 0. This definition ensures that division is the inverse operation of multiplication.

Of real numbers
Division of two real numbers results in another real number (when the divisor is nonzero). It is defined such that a/b = c if and only if a = cb and b ≠ 0.

Of complex numbers
Dividing two complex numbers (when the divisor is nonzero) results in another complex number, which is found using the conjugate of the denominator:

{\displaystyle {p+iq \over r+is}={(p+iq)(r-is) \over (r+is)(r-is)}={pr+qs+i(qr-ps) \over r^{2}+s^{2}}={pr+qs \over r^{2}+s^{2}}+i{qr-ps \over r^{2}+s^{2}}.}{p+iq \over r+is}={(p+iq)(r-is) \over (r+is)(r-is)}={pr+qs+i(qr-ps) \over r^{2}+s^{2}}={pr+qs \over r^{2}+s^{2}}+i{qr-ps \over r^{2}+s^{2}}.
This process of multiplying and dividing by {\displaystyle r-is}{\displaystyle r-is} is called 'realisation' or (by analogy) rationalisation. All four quantities p, q, r, s are real numbers, and r and s may not both be 0.

Division for complex numbers expressed in polar form is simpler than the definition above:

{\displaystyle {pe^{iq} \over re^{is}}={pe^{iq}e^{-is} \over re^{is}e^{-is}}={p \over r}e^{i(q-s)}.}{pe^{iq} \over re^{is}}={pe^{iq}e^{-is} \over re^{is}e^{-is}}={p \over r}e^{i(q-s)}.
Again all four quantities p, q, r, s are real numbers, and r may not be 0.

Of polynomials
One can define the division operation for polynomials in one variable over a field. Then, as in the case of integers, one has a remainder. See Euclidean division of polynomials, and, for hand-written computation, polynomial long division or synthetic division.

Of matrices
One can define a division operation for matrices. The usual way to do this is to define A / B = AB−1, where B−1 denotes the inverse of B, but it is far more common to write out AB−1 explicitly to avoid confusion. An elementwise division can also be defined in terms of the Hadamard product.

Left and right division
Because matrix multiplication is not commutative, one can also define a left division or so-called backslash-division as A \ B = A−1B. For this to be well defined, B−1 need not exist, however A−1 does need to exist. To avoid confusion, division as defined by A / B = AB−1 is sometimes called right division or slash-division in this context.

Note that with left and right division defined this way, A / (BC) is in general not the same as (A / B) / C, nor is (AB) \ C the same as A \ (B \ C). However, it holds that A / (BC) = (A / C) / B and (AB) \ C = B \ (A \ C).

Pseudoinverse
To avoid problems when A−1 and/or B−1 do not exist, division can also be defined as multiplication by the pseudoinverse. That is, A / B = AB+ and A \ B = A+B, where A+ and B+ denote the pseudoinverses of A and B.

Abstract algebra
In abstract algebra, given a magma with binary operation ∗ (which could nominally be termed multiplication), left division of b by a (written a \ b) is typically defined as the solution x to the equation a ∗ x = b, if this exists and is unique. Similarly, right division of b by a (written b / a) is the solution y to the equation y ∗ a = b. Division in this sense does not require ∗ to have any particular properties (such as commutativity, associativity, or an identity element).

"Division" in the sense of "cancellation" can be done in any magma by an element with the cancellation property. Examples include matrix algebras and quaternion algebras. A quasigroup is a structure in which division is always possible, even without an identity element and hence inverses. In an integral domain, where not every element need have an inverse, division by a cancellative element a can still be performed on elements of the form ab or ca by left or right cancellation, respectively. If a ring is finite and every nonzero element is cancellative, then by an application of the pigeonhole principle, every nonzero element of the ring is invertible, and division by any nonzero element is possible. To learn about when algebras (in the technical sense) have a division operation, refer to the page on division algebras. In particular Bott periodicity can be used to show that any real normed division algebra must be isomorphic to either the real numbers R, the complex numbers C, the quaternions H, or the octonions O.

Calculus
The derivative of the quotient of two functions is given by the quotient rule:

{\displaystyle {\left({\frac {f}{g}}\right)}'={\frac {f'g-fg'}{g^{2}}}.}{\left({\frac {f}{g}}\right)}'={\frac {f'g-fg'}{g^{2}}}.
Division by zero
Main article: Division by zero
Division of any number by zero in most mathematical systems is undefined, because zero multiplied by any finite number always results in a product of zero.[16] Entry of such an expression into most calculators produces an error message. However, in certain higher level mathematics division by zero is possible by the zero ring and algebras such as wheels.[17] In these algebras, the meaning of division is different from traditional definitions.8 (eight) is the natural number following 7 and preceding 9. 8 is: a composite number, its proper divisors being 1, 2, and 4. It is twice 4 or four times 2. a power of two, being 23 (two cubed), and is the first number of the form p3, p being an integer greater than 1. the first number which is neither prime nor semiprime. the base of the octal number system, which is mostly used with computers. In octal, one digit represents three bits. In modern computers, a byte is a grouping of eight bits, also called an octet. a Fibonacci number, being 3 plus 5. The next Fibonacci number is 13. 8 is the only positive Fibonacci number, aside from 1, that is a perfect cube. the only nonzero perfect power that is one less than another perfect power, by Mihăilescu's Theorem. the order of the smallest non-abelian group all of whose subgroups are normal. the dimension of the octonions and is the highest possible dimension of a normed division algebra. the first number to be the aliquot sum of two numbers other than itself; the discrete biprime 10, and the square number 49. A number is divisible by 8 if its last three digits, when written in decimal, are also divisible by 8, or its last three digits are 0 when written in binary. There are a total of eight convex deltahedra. A polygon with eight sides is an octagon. Figurate numbers representing octagons (including eight) are called octagonal numbers. A polyhedron with eight faces is an octahedron. A cuboctahedron has as faces six equal squares and eight equal regular triangles. A cube has eight vertices. Sphenic numbers always have exactly eight divisors. The number 8 is involved with a number of interesting mathematical phenomena related to the notion of Bott periodicity. For example, if O(∞) is the direct limit of the inclusions of real orthogonal groups {\displaystyle O(1)\hookrightarrow O(2)\hookrightarrow \ldots \hookrightarrow O(k)\hookrightarrow \ldots }O(1)\hookrightarrow O(2)\hookrightarrow\ldots\hookrightarrow O(k)\hookrightarrow\ldots, then {\displaystyle \pi _{k+8}(O(\infty ))\cong \pi _{k}(O(\infty ))}\pi_{k+8}(O(\infty))\cong\pi_{k}(O(\infty)). Clifford algebras also display a periodicity of 8. For example, the algebra Cl(p + 8,q) is isomorphic to the algebra of 16 by 16 matrices with entries in Cl(p,q). We also see a period of 8 in the K-theory of spheres and in the representation theory of the rotation groups, the latter giving rise to the 8 by 8 spinorial chessboard. All of these properties are closely related to the properties of the octonions. The spin group Spin(8) is the unique such group that exhibits the phenomenon of triality. The lowest-dimensional even unimodular lattice is the 8-dimensional E8 lattice. Even positive definite unimodular lattices exist only in dimensions divisible by 8. A figure 8 is the common name of a geometric shape, often used in the context of sports, such as skating. Figure-eight turns of a rope or cable around a cleat, pin, or bitt are used to belay something.80 (eighty) is the natural number following 79 and preceding 81. 80 is: the sum of Euler's totient function φ(x) over the first sixteen integers. a semiperfect number, since adding up some subsets of its divisors (e.g., 1, 4, 5, 10, 20 and 40) gives 80. a ménage number. palindromic in bases 3 (22223), 6 (2126), 9 (889), 15 (5515), 19 (4419) and 39 (2239). a repdigit in bases 3, 9, 15, 19 and 39. The Pareto principle (also known as the 80-20 rule) states that, for many events, roughly 80% of the effects come from 20% of the causes. Every solvable configuration of the 15 puzzle can be solved in no more than 80 single-tile moves.Exponentiation is a mathematical operation, written as bn, involving two numbers, the base b and the exponent or power n. When n is a positive integer, exponentiation corresponds to repeated multiplication of the base: that is, bn is the product of multiplying n bases:

{\displaystyle b^{n}=\underbrace {b\times \dots \times b} _{n\,{\textrm {times}}}.}{\displaystyle b^{n}=\underbrace {b\times \dots \times b} _{n\,{\textrm {times}}}.}
The exponent is usually shown as a superscript to the right of the base. In that case, bn is called "b raised to the n-th power", "b raised to the power of n", "the n-th power of b", "b to the n-th", or most briefly as "b to the n".

One has b1 = b, and, for any positive integers m and n, one has bn ⋅ bm = bn+m. To extend this property to non-positive integer exponents, b0 is defined to be 1, and b−n with n a positive integer and b not zero is defined as 
1
/
bn
. In particular, b−1 is equal to 
1
/
b
, the reciprocal of b.

The definition of exponentiation can be extended to allow any real or complex exponent. Exponentiation by integer exponents can also be defined for a wide variety of algebraic structures, including matrices.

Exponentiation is used extensively in many fields, including economics, biology, chemistry, physics, and computer science, with applications such as compound interest, population growth, chemical reaction kinetics, wave behavior, and public-key cryptography.

The term power (Latin: potentia, potestas, dignitas) is a mistranslation[1][2] of the ancient Greek δύναμις (dúnamis, here: "amplification"[1]) used by the Greek mathematician Euclid for the square of a line,[3] following Hippocrates of Chios.[4] Archimedes discovered and proved the law of exponents, 10a ⋅ 10b = 10a+b, necessary to manipulate powers of 10.[5][better source needed] In the 9th century, the Persian mathematician Muhammad ibn Mūsā al-Khwārizmī used the terms مَال (māl, "possessions", "property") for a square—the Muslims, "like most mathematicians of those and earlier times, thought of a squared number as a depiction of an area, especially of land, hence property"[6]—and كَعْبَة (kaʿbah, "cube") for a cube, which later Islamic mathematicians represented in mathematical notation as the letters mīm (m) and kāf (k), respectively, by the 15th century, as seen in the work of Abū al-Hasan ibn Alī al-Qalasādī.[7]

In the late 16th century, Jost Bürgi used Roman numerals for exponents.[8]

Nicolas Chuquet used a form of exponential notation in the 15th century, which was later used by Henricus Grammateus and Michael Stifel in the 16th century. The word exponent was coined in 1544 by Michael Stifel.[9][10] Samuel Jeake introduced the term indices in 1696.[3] In the 16th century Robert Recorde used the terms square, cube, zenzizenzic (fourth power), sursolid (fifth), zenzicube (sixth), second sursolid (seventh), and zenzizenzizenzic (eighth).[6] Biquadrate has been used to refer to the fourth power as well.

Early in the 17th century, the first form of our modern exponential notation was introduced by René Descartes in his text titled La Géométrie; there, the notation is introduced in Book I.[11]

Some mathematicians (e.g., Isaac Newton) used exponents only for powers greater than two, preferring to represent squares as repeated multiplication. Thus they would write polynomials, for example, as ax + bxx + cx3 + d.

Another historical synonym, involution, is now rare[12] and should not be confused with its more common meaning.

In 1748 Leonhard Euler wrote "consider exponentials or powers in which the exponent itself is a variable. It is clear that quantities of this kind are not algebraic functions, since in those the exponents must be constant."[13] With this introduction of transcendental functions, Euler laid the foundation for the modern introduction of natural logarithm as the inverse function for the natural exponential function, f(x) = ex.

Terminology
The expression b2 = b ⋅ b is called "the square of b" or "b squared" because the area of a square with side-length b is b2.

The expression b3 = b ⋅ b ⋅ b is called "the cube of b" or "b cubed" because the volume of a cube with side-length b is b3.

When it is a positive integer, the exponent indicates how many copies of the base are multiplied together. For example, 35 = 3 ⋅ 3 ⋅ 3 ⋅ 3 ⋅ 3 = 243. The base 3 appears 5 times in the repeated multiplication, because the exponent is 5. Here, 3 is the base, 5 is the exponent, and 243 is the 5th power of 3 or 3 raised to the 5th power.

The word "raised" is usually omitted, and sometimes "power" as well, so 35 can also be read "3 to the 5th" or "3 to the 5". Therefore, the exponentiation bn can be expressed as "b to the power of n", "b to the nth power", "b to the nth", or most briefly as "b to the n".

Integer exponents
The exponentiation operation with integer exponents may be defined directly from elementary arithmetic operations.

Positive exponents
Powers with positive integer exponents may be defined by the base case[14]

{\displaystyle b^{1}=b}b^{1}=b
and the recurrence relation

{\displaystyle b^{n+1}=b^{n}\cdot b.}{\displaystyle b^{n+1}=b^{n}\cdot b.}
The associativity of multiplication implies that for any positive integers m and n,

{\displaystyle b^{m+n}=b^{m}\cdot b^{n}.}{\displaystyle b^{m+n}=b^{m}\cdot b^{n}.}
Zero exponent
Any nonzero number raised to the 0 power is 1:[15]

{\displaystyle b^{0}=1.}{\displaystyle b^{0}=1.}
One interpretation of such a power is as an empty product.

The case of 00 is more complicated, and the choice of whether to assign it a value and what value to assign may depend on context. For more details, see Zero to the power of zero.

Negative exponents
The following identity holds for any integer n and nonzero b:

{\displaystyle b^{-n}={\frac {1}{b^{n}}}.}{\displaystyle b^{-n}={\frac {1}{b^{n}}}.}
Raising 0 to a negative exponent is undefined, but in some circumstances, it may be interpreted as infinity (∞).

The identity above may be derived through a definition aimed at extending the range of exponents to negative integers.

For non-zero b and positive n, the recurrence relation above can be rewritten as

{\displaystyle b^{n}={\frac {b^{n+1}}{b}},\quad n\geq 1.}{\displaystyle b^{n}={\frac {b^{n+1}}{b}},\quad n\geq 1.}
By defining this relation as valid for all integer n and nonzero b, it follows that

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}b^{0}&={\frac {b^{1}}{b}}=1,\\[3pt]b^{-1}&={\frac {b^{0}}{b}}={\frac {1}{b}},\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}b^{0}&={\frac {b^{1}}{b}}=1,\\[3pt]b^{-1}&={\frac {b^{0}}{b}}={\frac {1}{b}},\end{aligned}}}
and more generally for any nonzero b and any nonnegative integer n,

{\displaystyle b^{-n}={\frac {1}{b^{n}}}.}{\displaystyle b^{-n}={\frac {1}{b^{n}}}.}
This is then readily shown to be true for every integer n.

Identities and properties
The following identities hold for all integer exponents, provided that the base is non-zero:

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}b^{m+n}&=b^{m}\cdot b^{n}\\\left(b^{m}\right)^{n}&=b^{m\cdot n}\\(b\cdot c)^{n}&=b^{n}\cdot c^{n}\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}b^{m+n}&=b^{m}\cdot b^{n}\\\left(b^{m}\right)^{n}&=b^{m\cdot n}\\(b\cdot c)^{n}&=b^{n}\cdot c^{n}\end{aligned}}}
Unlike addition and multiplication:

Exponentiation is not commutative. For example, 23 = 8 ≠ 32 = 9.
Exponentiation is not associative. For example, (23)4 = 84 = 4096, whereas 2(34) = 281 = 2417851639229258349412352. Without parentheses, the conventional order of operations for serial exponentiation in superscript notation is top-down (or right-associative), not bottom-up[16][17][18][19] (or left-associative). That is,
{\displaystyle b^{p^{q}}=b^{\left(p^{q}\right)},}{\displaystyle b^{p^{q}}=b^{\left(p^{q}\right)},}
which, in general, is different from

{\displaystyle \left(b^{p}\right)^{q}=b^{pq}.}{\displaystyle \left(b^{p}\right)^{q}=b^{pq}.}
Powers of a sum
The powers of a sum can normally be computed from the powers of the summands by the binomial formula

{\displaystyle (a+b)^{n}=\sum _{i=0}^{n}{\binom {n}{i}}a^{i}b^{n-i}=\sum _{i=0}^{n}{\frac {n!}{i!(n-i)!}}a^{i}b^{n-i}.}{\displaystyle (a+b)^{n}=\sum _{i=0}^{n}{\binom {n}{i}}a^{i}b^{n-i}=\sum _{i=0}^{n}{\frac {n!}{i!(n-i)!}}a^{i}b^{n-i}.}
However, this formula is true only if the summands belong to a structure that is commutative, or, at least if ab = ba. Otherwise, for example if a and b are square matrices of the same size, this formula cannot be used. It follows that in computer algebra, many algorithms involving integer exponents must be changed when the exponentiation bases do not commute. Some general purpose computer algebra systems use a different notation (sometimes ^^ instead of ^) for exponentiation with non-commuting bases, which is then called non-commutative exponentiation.

Combinatorial interpretation
See also: Exponentiation over sets
For nonnegative integers n and m, the value of nm is the number of functions from a set of m elements to a set of n elements (see cardinal exponentiation). Such functions can be represented as m-tuples from an n-element set (or as m-letter words from an n-letter alphabet). Some examples for particular values of m and n are given in the following table:

nm	The nm possible m-tuples of elements from the set {1, ..., n}
{\displaystyle 0^{5}=0}{\displaystyle 0^{5}=0}	none
{\displaystyle 1^{4}=1}{\displaystyle 1^{4}=1}	{\displaystyle (1,1,1,1)}{\displaystyle (1,1,1,1)}
{\displaystyle 2^{3}=8}2^{3}=8	{\displaystyle (1,1,1),(1,1,2),(1,2,1),(1,2,2),(2,1,1),(2,1,2),(2,2,1),(2,2,2)}{\displaystyle (1,1,1),(1,1,2),(1,2,1),(1,2,2),(2,1,1),(2,1,2),(2,2,1),(2,2,2)}
{\displaystyle 3^{2}=9}3^{2}=9	{\displaystyle (1,1),(1,2),(1,3),(2,1),(2,2),(2,3),(3,1),(3,2),(3,3)}{\displaystyle (1,1),(1,2),(1,3),(2,1),(2,2),(2,3),(3,1),(3,2),(3,3)}
{\displaystyle 4^{1}=4}{\displaystyle 4^{1}=4}	{\displaystyle (1),(2),(3),(4)}{\displaystyle (1),(2),(3),(4)}
{\displaystyle 5^{0}=1}{\displaystyle 5^{0}=1}	{\displaystyle ()}()
Particular bases
Powers of ten
See also: Scientific notation
Main article: Power of 10
In the base ten (decimal) number system, integer powers of 10 are written as the digit 1 followed or preceded by a number of zeroes determined by the sign and magnitude of the exponent. For example, 103 = 1000 and 10−4 = 0.0001.

Exponentiation with base 10 is used in scientific notation to denote large or small numbers. For instance, 299792458 m/s (the speed of light in vacuum, in metres per second) can be written as 2.99792458×108 m/s and then approximated as 2.998×108 m/s.

SI prefixes based on powers of 10 are also used to describe small or large quantities. For example, the prefix kilo means 103 = 1000, so a kilometre is 1000 m.

Powers of two
Main article: Power of two
The first negative powers of 2 are commonly used, and have special names, e.g.: half and quarter.

Powers of 2 appear in set theory, since a set with n members has a power set, the set of all of its subsets, which has 2n members.

Integer powers of 2 are important in computer science. The positive integer powers 2n give the number of possible values for an n-bit integer binary number; for example, a byte may take 28 = 256 different values. The binary number system expresses any number as a sum of powers of 2, and denotes it as a sequence of 0 and 1, separated by a binary point, where 1 indicates a power of 2 that appears in the sum; the exponent is determined by the place of this 1: the nonnegative exponents are the rank of the 1 on the left of the point (starting from 0), and the negative exponents are determined by the rank on the right of the point.

Powers of one
The powers of one are all one: 1n = 1.

Powers of zero
If the exponent n is positive (n > 0), the nth power of zero is zero: 0n = 0.

If the exponent n is negative (n < 0), the nth power of zero 0n is undefined, because it must equal {\displaystyle 1/0^{-n}}{\displaystyle 1/0^{-n}} with -n > 0, and this would be {\displaystyle 1/0}1/0 according to above.

The expression 00 is either defined as 1, or it is left undefined (see Zero to the power of zero).

Powers of negative one
If n is an even integer, then (−1)n = 1.

If n is an odd integer, then (−1)n = −1.

Because of this, powers of −1 are useful for expressing alternating sequences. For a similar discussion of powers of the complex number i, see § Powers of complex numbers.

Large exponents
The limit of a sequence of powers of a number greater than one diverges; in other words, the sequence grows without bound:

bn → ∞ as n → ∞ when b > 1
This can be read as "b to the power of n tends to +∞ as n tends to infinity when b is greater than one".

Powers of a number with absolute value less than one tend to zero:

bn → 0 as n → ∞ when |b| < 1
Any power of one is always one:

bn = 1 for all n if b = 1
Powers of –1 alternate between 1 and –1 as n alternates between even and odd, and thus do not tend to any limit as n grows.

If b < –1, bn, alternates between larger and larger positive and negative numbers as n alternates between even and odd, and thus does not tend to any limit as n grows.

If the exponentiated number varies while tending to 1 as the exponent tends to infinity, then the limit is not necessarily one of those above. A particularly important case is

(1 + 1/n)n → e as n → ∞
See § The exponential function below.

Other limits, in particular those of expressions that take on an indeterminate form, are described in § Limits of powers below.

Power functions

Power functions for {\displaystyle n=1,3,5}{\displaystyle n=1,3,5}

Power functions for {\displaystyle n=2,4,6}{\displaystyle n=2,4,6}
Real functions of the form {\displaystyle f(x)=cx^{n}}{\displaystyle f(x)=cx^{n}}, where {\displaystyle c\neq 0}c\neq 0, are sometimes called power functions.[citation needed] When {\displaystyle n}n is an integer and {\displaystyle n\geq 1}n\geq 1, two primary families exist: for {\displaystyle n}n even, and for {\displaystyle n}n odd. In general for {\displaystyle c>0}c>0, when {\displaystyle n}n is even {\displaystyle f(x)=cx^{n}}{\displaystyle f(x)=cx^{n}} will tend towards positive infinity with increasing {\displaystyle x}x, and also towards positive infinity with decreasing {\displaystyle x}x. All graphs from the family of even power functions have the general shape of {\displaystyle y=cx^{2}}{\displaystyle y=cx^{2}}, flattening more in the middle as {\displaystyle n}n increases.[20] Functions with this kind of symmetry ({\displaystyle f(-x)=f(x)}{\displaystyle f(-x)=f(x)}) are called even functions.

When {\displaystyle n}n is odd, {\displaystyle f(x)}f(x)'s asymptotic behavior reverses from positive {\displaystyle x}x to negative {\displaystyle x}x. For {\displaystyle c>0}c>0, {\displaystyle f(x)=cx^{n}}{\displaystyle f(x)=cx^{n}} will also tend towards positive infinity with increasing {\displaystyle x}x, but towards negative infinity with decreasing {\displaystyle x}x. All graphs from the family of odd power functions have the general shape of {\displaystyle y=cx^{3}}{\displaystyle y=cx^{3}}, flattening more in the middle as {\displaystyle n}n increases and losing all flatness there in the straight line for {\displaystyle n=1}n=1. Functions with this kind of symmetry ({\displaystyle f(-x)=-f(x)}{\displaystyle f(-x)=-f(x)}) are called odd functions.

For {\displaystyle c<0}c < 0, the opposite asymptotic behavior is true in each case.[20]

An nth root of a number b is a number x such that xn = b.

If b is a positive real number and n is a positive integer, then there is exactly one positive real solution to xn = b. This solution is called the principal nth root of b. It is denoted n√b, where √   is the radical symbol; alternatively, the principal root may be written b1/n. For example: 91/2 = √9 = 3 and 81/3 = 3√8 = 2.

The fact that {\displaystyle x=b^{\frac {1}{n}}}{\displaystyle x=b^{\frac {1}{n}}} solves {\displaystyle x^{n}=b}{\displaystyle x^{n}=b} follows from noting that

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}x^{n}&=\left(b^{\frac {1}{n}}\right)^{n}=\underbrace {b^{\frac {1}{n}}\times b^{\frac {1}{n}}\times \cdots \times b^{\frac {1}{n}}} _{n\,{\textrm {times}}}\\&=b^{\underbrace {\left({\frac {1}{n}}+{\frac {1}{n}}+\cdots +{\frac {1}{n}}\right)} _{n\,{\textrm {times}}}}=b^{\frac {n}{n}}=b^{1}=b.\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}x^{n}&=\left(b^{\frac {1}{n}}\right)^{n}=\underbrace {b^{\frac {1}{n}}\times b^{\frac {1}{n}}\times \cdots \times b^{\frac {1}{n}}} _{n\,{\textrm {times}}}\\&=b^{\underbrace {\left({\frac {1}{n}}+{\frac {1}{n}}+\cdots +{\frac {1}{n}}\right)} _{n\,{\textrm {times}}}}=b^{\frac {n}{n}}=b^{1}=b.\end{aligned}}}
If n is even and b is positive, then xn = b has two real solutions, which are the positive and negative nth roots of b, that is, b1/n > 0 and −(b1/n) < 0.

If n is even and b is negative, the equation has no solution in real numbers.

If n is odd, then xn = b has exactly one real solution, which is positive if b is positive (b1/n > 0) and negative if b is negative (b1/n < 0).

Taking a positive real number b to a rational exponent u/v, where u is an integer and v is a positive integer, and considering principal roots only, yields

{\displaystyle b^{\frac {u}{v}}=\left(b^{u}\right)^{\frac {1}{v}}={\sqrt[{v}]{b^{u}}}=\left(b^{\frac {1}{v}}\right)^{u}=\left({\sqrt[{v}]{b}}\right)^{u}.}{\displaystyle b^{\frac {u}{v}}=\left(b^{u}\right)^{\frac {1}{v}}={\sqrt[{v}]{b^{u}}}=\left(b^{\frac {1}{v}}\right)^{u}=\left({\sqrt[{v}]{b}}\right)^{u}.}
Taking a negative real number b to a rational power u/v, where u/v is in lowest terms, yields a positive real result if u is even, and hence v is odd, because then bu is positive; and yields a negative real result, if u and v are both odd, because then bu is negative. The case of even v (and, hence, odd u) cannot be treated this way within the reals, since there is no real number x such that x2k = −1, the value of bu/v in this case must use the imaginary unit i, as described more fully in the section § Powers of complex numbers.

Thus we have (−27)1/3 = −3 and (−27)2/3 = 9. The number 4 has two 3/2 powers, namely 8 and −8; however, by convention the notation 43/2 employs the principal root, and results in 8. For employing the v-th root the u/v-th power is also called the v/u-th root, and for even v the term principal root denotes also the positive result.

This sign ambiguity needs to be taken care of when applying the power identities. For instance:

{\displaystyle -27=(-27)^{\left(\left({\frac {2}{3}}\right)\left({\frac {3}{2}}\right)\right)}=\left((-27)^{\frac {2}{3}}\right)^{\frac {3}{2}}=9^{\frac {3}{2}}=27}{\displaystyle -27=(-27)^{\left(\left({\frac {2}{3}}\right)\left({\frac {3}{2}}\right)\right)}=\left((-27)^{\frac {2}{3}}\right)^{\frac {3}{2}}=9^{\frac {3}{2}}=27}
is clearly wrong. The problem starts already in the first equality by introducing a standard notation for an inherently ambiguous situation –asking for an even root– and simply relying wrongly on only one, the conventional or principal interpretation. The same problem occurs also with an inappropriately introduced surd-notation, inherently enforcing a positive result:

{\displaystyle \left((-27)^{\frac {2}{3}}\right)^{\frac {3}{2}}={\sqrt {\left({\sqrt[{3}]{(-27)^{2}}}\right)^{3}}}={\sqrt {(-27)^{2}}}\neq -27}{\displaystyle \left((-27)^{\frac {2}{3}}\right)^{\frac {3}{2}}={\sqrt {\left({\sqrt[{3}]{(-27)^{2}}}\right)^{3}}}={\sqrt {(-27)^{2}}}\neq -27}
instead of

{\displaystyle \left((-27)^{\frac {2}{3}}\right)^{\frac {3}{2}}=-{\sqrt {\left({\sqrt[{3}]{(-27)^{2}}}\right)^{3}}}=-{\sqrt {(-27)^{2}}}=-27.}{\displaystyle \left((-27)^{\frac {2}{3}}\right)^{\frac {3}{2}}=-{\sqrt {\left({\sqrt[{3}]{(-27)^{2}}}\right)^{3}}}=-{\sqrt {(-27)^{2}}}=-27.}
In general the same sort of problems occur for complex numbers as described in the section § Failure of power and logarithm identities.

Real exponents
Exponentiation to real powers of positive real numbers can be defined either by extending the rational powers to reals by continuity, or more usually as given in § Powers via logarithms below. The result is always a positive real number, and the identities and properties shown above for integer exponents are true for positive real bases with non-integer exponents as well.

On the other hand, exponentiation to a real power of a negative real number is much more difficult to define consistently, as it may be non-real and have several values (see § Real exponents with negative bases). One may choose one of these values, called the principal value, but there is no choice of the principal value for which an identity such as

{\displaystyle \left(b^{r}\right)^{s}=b^{r\cdot s}}{\displaystyle \left(b^{r}\right)^{s}=b^{r\cdot s}}
is true; see § Failure of power and logarithm identities. Therefore, exponentiation with a basis that is not a positive real number is generally viewed as a multivalued function.

Limits of rational exponents

Because the exponential function is continuous we find {\displaystyle \lim _{n\to \infty }e^{x_{n}}=e^{\lim _{n\to \infty }x_{n}}}{\displaystyle \lim _{n\to \infty }e^{x_{n}}=e^{\lim _{n\to \infty }x_{n}}} for convergent sequences (xn). This is shown here for xn = 
1
/
n
.
Since any irrational number can be expressed as the limit of a sequence of rational numbers, exponentiation of a positive real number b with an arbitrary real exponent x can be defined by continuity with the rule[21]

{\displaystyle b^{x}=\lim _{r(\in \mathbb {Q} )\to x}b^{r}\quad (b\in \mathbb {R} ^{+},\,x\in \mathbb {R} ),}{\displaystyle b^{x}=\lim _{r(\in \mathbb {Q} )\to x}b^{r}\quad (b\in \mathbb {R} ^{+},\,x\in \mathbb {R} ),}
where the limit as r gets close to x is taken only over rational values of r. This limit only exists for positive b. The (ε, δ)-definition of limit is used; this involves showing that for any desired accuracy of the result bx one can choose a sufficiently small interval around x so all the rational powers in the interval are within the desired accuracy.

For example, if x = π, the nonterminating decimal representation π = 3.14159… can be used (based on strict monotonicity of the rational power) to obtain the intervals bounded by rational powers

{\displaystyle \left[b^{3},b^{4}\right]}{\displaystyle \left[b^{3},b^{4}\right]}, {\displaystyle \left[b^{3.1},b^{3.2}\right]}{\displaystyle \left[b^{3.1},b^{3.2}\right]}, {\displaystyle \left[b^{3.14},b^{3.15}\right]}{\displaystyle \left[b^{3.14},b^{3.15}\right]}, {\displaystyle \left[b^{3.141},b^{3.142}\right]}{\displaystyle \left[b^{3.141},b^{3.142}\right]}, {\displaystyle \left[b^{3.1415},b^{3.1416}\right]}{\displaystyle \left[b^{3.1415},b^{3.1416}\right]}, {\displaystyle \left[b^{3.14159},b^{3.14160}\right]}{\displaystyle \left[b^{3.14159},b^{3.14160}\right]}, {\displaystyle \ldots }\ldots 
The bounded intervals converge to a unique real number, denoted by {\displaystyle b^{\pi }}b^{\pi }. This technique can be used to obtain the power of a positive real number b for any irrational exponent. The function fb(x) = bx is thus defined for any real number x.

The exponential function
Main article: Exponential function
The important mathematical constant e, sometimes called Euler's number, is approximately equal to 2.718 and is the base of the natural logarithm. Although exponentiation of e could, in principle, be treated the same as exponentiation of any other real number, such exponentials turn out to have particularly elegant and useful properties. Among other things, these properties allow exponentials of e to be generalized in a natural way to other types of exponents, such as complex numbers or even matrices, while coinciding with the familiar meaning of exponentiation with rational exponents.

As a consequence, the notation ex usually denotes a generalized exponentiation definition called the exponential function, exp(x), which can be defined in many equivalent ways, for example, by

{\displaystyle \exp(x)=\lim _{n\to \infty }\left(1+{\frac {x}{n}}\right)^{n}.}{\displaystyle \exp(x)=\lim _{n\to \infty }\left(1+{\frac {x}{n}}\right)^{n}.}
Among other properties, exp satisfies the exponential identity

{\displaystyle \exp(x+y)=\exp(x)\cdot \exp(y).}{\displaystyle \exp(x+y)=\exp(x)\cdot \exp(y).}
The exponential function is defined for all integer, fractional, real, and complex values of x. In fact, the matrix exponential is well-defined for square matrices (in which case this exponential identity only holds when x and y commute) and is useful for solving systems of linear differential equations.

Since exp(1) is equal to e, and exp(x) satisfies this exponential identity, it immediately follows that exp(x) coincides with the repeated-multiplication definition of ex for integer x, and it also follows that rational powers denote (positive) roots as usual, so exp(x) coincides with the ex definitions in the previous section for all real x by continuity.

Powers via logarithms
When ex is defined as the exponential function, bx can be defined, for other positive real numbers b, in terms of ex. Specifically, the natural logarithm ln(x) is the inverse of the exponential function ex. It is defined for b > 0, and satisfies

{\displaystyle b=e^{\ln b}.}{\displaystyle b=e^{\ln b}.}
If bx is to preserve the logarithm and exponent rules, then one must have

{\displaystyle b^{x}=\left(e^{\ln b}\right)^{x}=e^{x\cdot \ln b}}{\displaystyle b^{x}=\left(e^{\ln b}\right)^{x}=e^{x\cdot \ln b}}
for each real number x.

This can be used as an alternative definition of the real-number power bx and agrees with the definition given above using rational exponents and continuity. The definition of exponentiation using logarithms is more common in the context of complex numbers, as discussed below.

Real exponents with negative bases
Powers of a positive real number are always positive real numbers. The solution of x2 = 4, however, can be either 2 or −2. The principal value of 41/2 is 2, but −2 is also a valid square root. If the definition of exponentiation of real numbers is extended to allow negative results then the result is no longer well-behaved.

Neither the logarithm method nor the rational exponent method can be used to define br as a real number for a negative real number b and an arbitrary real number r. Indeed, er is positive for every real number r, so ln(b) is not defined as a real number for b ≤ 0.

The rational exponent method cannot be used for negative values of b because it relies on continuity. The function f(r) = br has a unique continuous extension[21] from the rational numbers to the real numbers for each b > 0. But when b < 0, the function f is not even continuous on the set of rational numbers r for which it is defined.

For example, consider b = −1. The nth root of −1 is −1 for every odd natural number n. So if n is an odd positive integer, (−1)(m/n) = −1 if m is odd, and (−1)(m/n) = 1 if m is even. Thus the set of rational numbers q for which (−1)q = 1 is dense in the rational numbers, as is the set of q for which (−1)q = −1. This means that the function (−1)q is not continuous at any rational number q where it is defined.

On the other hand, arbitrary complex powers of negative numbers b can be defined by choosing a complex logarithm of b.

Irrational exponents
Main article: Gelfond–Schneider theorem
If b is a positive real algebraic number, and x is a rational number, it has been shown above that bx is an algebraic number. This remains true even if one accepts any algebraic number for b, with the only difference that bx may take several values (a finite number, see below), which are all algebraic. The Gelfond–Schneider theorem provides some information on the nature of bx when x is irrational (that is, not rational). It states:

If b is an algebraic number different from 0 and 1, and x an irrational algebraic number, then all values of bx (there are infinitely many) are transcendental (that is, not algebraic).

Complex exponents with a positive real base
If b is a positive real number, and z is any complex number, the power bz is defined as

{\displaystyle b^{z}=\left(e^{\ln b}\right)^{z}=e^{(z\ln b)},}{\displaystyle b^{z}=\left(e^{\ln b}\right)^{z}=e^{(z\ln b)},}
where x = ln(b) is the unique real solution to the equation ex = b, and the complex power of e is defined by the exponential function, which is the unique function of a complex variable that is equal to its derivative and takes the value 1 for x = 0.

As, in general, bz is not a real number, an expression such as (bz)w is not defined by the previous definition. It must be interpreted via the rules for powers of complex numbers, and, unless z is real or w is integer, does not generally equal bzw, as one might expect.

There are various definitions of the exponential function but they extend compatibly to complex numbers and satisfy the exponential property. For any complex numbers z and w, the exponential function satisfies {\displaystyle e^{z+w}=e^{z}e^{w}}{\displaystyle e^{z+w}=e^{z}e^{w}}. In particular, for any complex number {\displaystyle z=x+iy}{\displaystyle z=x+iy}

{\displaystyle e^{z}=e^{x+iy}=e^{x}\cdot e^{iy},}{\displaystyle e^{z}=e^{x+iy}=e^{x}\cdot e^{iy},}
The second term {\displaystyle e^{iy}}e^{{iy}} has a value given by Euler's formula

{\displaystyle e^{iy}=\cos y+i\sin y.}{\displaystyle e^{iy}=\cos y+i\sin y.}
This formula links problems in trigonometry and algebra.

Therefore, for any complex number {\displaystyle z=x+iy,}{\displaystyle z=x+iy,}

{\displaystyle e^{z}=e^{x+iy}=e^{x}\cdot e^{iy}=e^{x}(\cos y+i\sin y).}{\displaystyle e^{z}=e^{x+iy}=e^{x}\cdot e^{iy}=e^{x}(\cos y+i\sin y).}
Because of the Pythagorean trigonometric identity, the absolute value of {\displaystyle \cos y+i\sin y}{\displaystyle \cos y+i\sin y} is 1. Therefore, the real factor {\displaystyle e^{x}}e^{x} is the absolute value of {\displaystyle e^{z}}e^{z} and the imaginary part {\displaystyle y}y of the exponent identifies the argument (angle) of the complex number {\displaystyle e^{z}}e^{z}.

Series definition
The exponential function being equal to its derivative and satisfying {\displaystyle e^{0}=1,}{\displaystyle e^{0}=1,} its Taylor series must be

{\displaystyle e^{z}=\sum _{n=0}^{\infty }{z^{n} \over n!}=1+z+{\frac {z^{2}}{2!}}+{\frac {z^{3}}{3!}}+{\frac {z^{4}}{4!}}+\cdots .}{\displaystyle e^{z}=\sum _{n=0}^{\infty }{z^{n} \over n!}=1+z+{\frac {z^{2}}{2!}}+{\frac {z^{3}}{3!}}+{\frac {z^{4}}{4!}}+\cdots .}
This infinite series, which is often taken as the definition of the exponential function ez for arbitrary complex exponents, is absolutely convergent for all complex numbers z.

When z is purely imaginary, that is, z = iy for a real number y, the series above becomes

{\displaystyle e^{iy}=1+iy+{\frac {(iy)^{2}}{2!}}+{\frac {(iy)^{3}}{3!}}+{\frac {(iy)^{4}}{4!}}+\cdots ,}{\displaystyle e^{iy}=1+iy+{\frac {(iy)^{2}}{2!}}+{\frac {(iy)^{3}}{3!}}+{\frac {(iy)^{4}}{4!}}+\cdots ,}
which (because it converges absolutely) may be reordered to

{\displaystyle e^{iy}=\left(1-{\frac {y^{2}}{2!}}+{\frac {y^{4}}{4!}}-{\frac {y^{6}}{6!}}+\cdots \right)+i\left(y-{\frac {y^{3}}{3!}}+{\frac {y^{5}}{5!}}-\cdots \right).}{\displaystyle e^{iy}=\left(1-{\frac {y^{2}}{2!}}+{\frac {y^{4}}{4!}}-{\frac {y^{6}}{6!}}+\cdots \right)+i\left(y-{\frac {y^{3}}{3!}}+{\frac {y^{5}}{5!}}-\cdots \right).}
The real and the imaginary parts of this expression are Taylor expansions of cosine and sine respectively, centered at zero, implying Euler's formula:

{\displaystyle e^{iy}=\cos y+i\sin y.}{\displaystyle e^{iy}=\cos y+i\sin y.}
Limit definition

This animation shows by repeated multiplications in the complex plane for values of n (denoted as N in the picture), increasing from 1 to 100, how {\displaystyle (1+i\pi /n)^{n}}{\displaystyle (1+i\pi /n)^{n}} approaches −1. The values of {\displaystyle (1+i\pi /n)^{k},}{\displaystyle (1+i\pi /n)^{k},} for k = 0 ... n, are the vertices of a polygonal path whose leftmost endpoint is {\displaystyle (1+i\pi /k)^{k}}{\displaystyle (1+i\pi /k)^{k}} for the actual k. It can be seen that as k gets larger {\displaystyle (1+i\pi /k)^{k}}{\displaystyle (1+i\pi /k)^{k}} approaches the limit −1, illustrating Euler's identity: {\displaystyle e^{i\pi }=-1.}{\displaystyle e^{i\pi }=-1.}
Another characterization of the exponential function {\displaystyle e^{z}}e^{z} is as the limit of {\displaystyle (1+z/n)^{n}}{\displaystyle (1+z/n)^{n}}, as n approaches infinity. By thinking of the nth power in this definition as repeated multiplication in polar form, it can be used to visually illustrate Euler's formula. Any complex number can be represented in polar form as {\displaystyle (r,\theta )}(r,\theta ), where r is the absolute value and θ is its argument. The product of two complex numbers {\displaystyle (r_{1},\theta _{1})}{\displaystyle (r_{1},\theta _{1})} and {\displaystyle (r_{2},\theta _{2})}{\displaystyle (r_{2},\theta _{2})} is {\displaystyle (r_{1}r_{2},\theta _{1}+\theta _{2})}{\displaystyle (r_{1}r_{2},\theta _{1}+\theta _{2})}.

Consider the right triangle in the complex plane which has {\displaystyle 0}{\displaystyle 0}, {\displaystyle 1}1, and {\displaystyle 1+ix/n}{\displaystyle 1+ix/n} as vertices. For large values of n, the triangle is almost a circular sector with a radius of 1 and a small central angle equal to {\displaystyle x/n}{\displaystyle x/n} radians. 1 + {\displaystyle ix/n}{\displaystyle ix/n} may then be approximated by the number with polar form {\displaystyle (1,x/n)}{\displaystyle (1,x/n)}. So, in the limit as n approaches infinity, {\displaystyle (1+ix/n)^{n}}{\displaystyle (1+ix/n)^{n}} approaches {\displaystyle (1,x/n)^{n}=(1^{n},nx/n)=(1,x)}{\displaystyle (1,x/n)^{n}=(1^{n},nx/n)=(1,x)}, the point on the unit circle whose angle from the positive real axis is x radians. The Cartesian coordinates of this point are {\displaystyle (\cos x,\sin x)}{\displaystyle (\cos x,\sin x)}, so {\displaystyle e^{ix}=\cos x+i\sin x}e^{ix} = \cos x + i \sin x; this is again Euler's formula, allowing the same connections to the trigonometric functions as elaborated with the series definition.

Periodicity
The solutions to the equation {\displaystyle e^{z}=1}{\displaystyle e^{z}=1} are the integer multiples of {\displaystyle 2\pi i}2\pi i:

{\displaystyle \left\{z:e^{z}=1\right\}=\{2k\pi i:k\in \mathbb {Z} \}}{\displaystyle \left\{z:e^{z}=1\right\}=\{2k\pi i:k\in \mathbb {Z} \}}
Thus, if {\displaystyle v}v is a complex number such that {\displaystyle e^{v}=w}{\displaystyle e^{v}=w}, then every {\displaystyle z}z that also satisfies {\displaystyle e^{z}=w}{\displaystyle e^{z}=w} can be obtained from {\displaystyle e^{z}=e^{v}\cdot 1=e^{v+i2k\pi }}{\displaystyle e^{z}=e^{v}\cdot 1=e^{v+i2k\pi }}, i.e., by adding an arbitrary integer multiple of {\displaystyle 2\pi i}2\pi i to {\displaystyle v}v:

{\displaystyle \left\{z:e^{z}=w\right\}=\{v+2k\pi i:k\in \mathbb {Z} \}}{\displaystyle \left\{z:e^{z}=w\right\}=\{v+2k\pi i:k\in \mathbb {Z} \}}
That is, the complex exponential function {\displaystyle e^{z}=\exp(z)=\exp(z+2k\pi i)}{\displaystyle e^{z}=\exp(z)=\exp(z+2k\pi i)} for any integer k is a periodic function with period {\displaystyle 2\pi i}2\pi i.

Examples
{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}2^{i}&=e^{i\ln(2)}=\cos {\big (}\ln(2){\big )}+i\sin {\big (}\ln(2){\big )}\approx 0.76924+0.63896i,\\e^{i}&=\cos(1)+i\sin(1)\approx 0.54030+0.84147i,\\\left(e^{2\pi }\right)^{i}&=e^{i\ln(e^{2\pi })}=e^{i(2\pi )}=\cos(2\pi )+i\sin(2\pi )=1.\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}2^{i}&=e^{i\ln(2)}=\cos {\big (}\ln(2){\big )}+i\sin {\big (}\ln(2){\big )}\approx 0.76924+0.63896i,\\e^{i}&=\cos(1)+i\sin(1)\approx 0.54030+0.84147i,\\\left(e^{2\pi }\right)^{i}&=e^{i\ln(e^{2\pi })}=e^{i(2\pi )}=\cos(2\pi )+i\sin(2\pi )=1.\end{aligned}}}
Powers of complex numbers
Integer powers of nonzero complex numbers are defined by repeated multiplication or division as above. If i is the imaginary unit and n is an integer, then in equals 1, i, −1, or −i, according to whether the integer n is congruent to 0, 1, 2, or 3 modulo 4. Because of this, the powers of i are useful for expressing sequences of period 4.

Complex powers of positive reals are defined via ex as in section Complex exponents with positive real bases above. These are continuous functions.

Trying to extend these functions to the general case of noninteger powers of complex numbers that are not positive reals leads to difficulties. Either we define discontinuous functions or multivalued functions. Neither of these options is entirely satisfactory.

The rational power of a complex number must be the solution to an algebraic equation. Therefore, it always has a finite number of possible values. For example, w = z1/2 must be a solution to the equation w2 = z. But if w is a solution, then so is −w, because (−1)2 = 1. A unique but somewhat arbitrary solution called the principal value can be chosen using a general rule which also applies for nonrational powers.

Complex powers and logarithms are more naturally handled as single valued functions on a Riemann surface. Single valued versions are defined by choosing a sheet. The value has a discontinuity along a branch cut. Choosing one out of many solutions as the principal value leaves us with functions that are not continuous, and the usual rules for manipulating powers can lead us astray.

Any nonrational power of a complex number has an infinite number of possible values because of the multi-valued nature of the complex logarithm. The principal value is a single value chosen from these by a rule which, amongst its other properties, ensures powers of complex numbers with a positive real part and zero imaginary part give the same value as does the rule defined above for the corresponding real base.

Exponentiating a real number to a complex power is formally a different operation from that for the corresponding complex number. However, in the common case of a positive real number the principal value is the same.

The powers of negative real numbers are not always defined and are discontinuous even where defined. In fact, they are only defined when the exponent is a rational number with the denominator being an odd integer. When dealing with complex numbers the complex number operation is normally used instead.

Complex exponents with complex bases
For complex numbers w and z with w ≠ 0, the notation wz is ambiguous in the same sense that log w is.

To obtain a value of wz, first choose a logarithm of w; call it log w. Such a choice may be the principal value Log w (the default, if no other specification is given), or perhaps a value given by some other branch of log w fixed in advance. Then, using the complex exponential function one defines

{\displaystyle w^{z}=e^{z\log w}}w^{z}=e^{z\log w}
because this agrees with the earlier definition in the case where w is a positive real number and the (real) principal value of log w is used.

If z is an integer, then the value of wz is independent of the choice of log w, and it agrees with the earlier definition of exponentiation with an integer exponent.

If z is a rational number m/n in lowest terms with z > 0, then the countably infinitely many choices of log w yield only n different values for wz; these values are the n complex solutions s to the equation sn = wm.

If z is an irrational number, then the countably infinitely many choices of log w lead to infinitely many distinct values for wz.

The computation of complex powers is facilitated by converting the base w to polar form, as described in detail below.

A similar construction is employed in quaternions.

Complex roots of unity
Main article: Root of unity

The three 3rd roots of 1
A complex number w such that wn = 1 for a positive integer n is an nth root of unity. Geometrically, the nth roots of unity lie on the unit circle of the complex plane at the vertices of a regular n-gon with one vertex on the real number 1.

If wn = 1 but wk ≠ 1 for all natural numbers k such that 0 < k < n, then w is called a primitive nth root of unity. The negative unit −1 is the only primitive square root of unity. The imaginary unit i is one of the two primitive 4th roots of unity; the other one is −i.

The number e
2πi
/
n
 is the primitive nth root of unity with the smallest positive argument. (It is sometimes called the principal nth root of unity, although this terminology is not universal and should not be confused with the principal value of n√1, which is 1.[22][23][24])

The other nth roots of unity are given by

{\displaystyle \left(e^{{\frac {2}{n}}\pi i}\right)^{k}=e^{{\frac {2}{n}}\pi ik}}\left(e^{{\frac {2}{n}}\pi i}\right)^{k}=e^{{\frac {2}{n}}\pi ik}
for 2 ≤ k ≤ n.

Roots of arbitrary complex numbers
Although there are infinitely many possible values for a general complex logarithm, there are only a finite number of values for the power wq in the important special case where q = 1/n and n is a positive integer. These are the nth roots of w; they are solutions of the equation zn = w. As with real roots, a second root is also called a square root and a third root is also called a cube root.

It is usual in mathematics to define w1/n as the principal value of the root, which is, conventionally, the nth root whose argument has the smallest absolute value. When w is a positive real number, this is coherent with the usual convention of defining w1/n as the unique positive real nth root. On the other hand, when w is a negative real number, and n is an odd integer, the unique real nth root is not one of the two nth roots whose argument has the smallest absolute value. In this case, the meaning of w1/n may depend on the context, and some care may be needed for avoiding errors.

The set of nth roots of a complex number w is obtained by multiplying the principal value w1/n by each of the nth roots of unity. For example, the fourth roots of 16 are 2, −2, 2i, and −2i, because the principal value of the fourth root of 16 is 2 and the fourth roots of unity are 1, −1, i, and −i.

Computing complex powers
It is often easier to compute complex powers by writing the number to be exponentiated in polar form. Every complex number z can be written in the polar form

{\displaystyle z=re^{i\theta }=e^{\ln(r)+i\theta },}{\displaystyle z=re^{i\theta }=e^{\ln(r)+i\theta },}
where r is a nonnegative real number and θ is the (real) argument of z. The polar form has a simple geometric interpretation: if a complex number u + iv is thought of as representing a point (u, v) in the complex plane using Cartesian coordinates, then (r, θ) is the same point in polar coordinates. That is, r is the "radius" r2 = u2 + v2 and θ is the "angle" θ = atan2(v, u). The polar angle θ is ambiguous since any integer multiple of 2π could be added to θ without changing the location of the point. Each choice of θ gives in general a different possible value of the power. A branch cut can be used to choose a specific value. The principal value (the most common branch cut), corresponds to θ chosen in the interval (−π, π]. For complex numbers with a positive real part and zero imaginary part using the principal value gives the same result as using the corresponding real number.

In order to compute the complex power wz, write w in polar form:

{\displaystyle w=re^{i\theta }.}{\displaystyle w=re^{i\theta }.}
Then

{\displaystyle \log(w)=\ln(r)+i\theta ,}{\displaystyle \log(w)=\ln(r)+i\theta ,}
and thus

{\displaystyle w^{z}=e^{z\log(w)}=e^{z(\ln(r)+i\theta )}.}{\displaystyle w^{z}=e^{z\log(w)}=e^{z(\ln(r)+i\theta )}.}
If z is decomposed as c + di, then the formula for wz can be written more explicitly as

{\displaystyle (r^{c}e^{-d\theta })e^{i(d\ln(r)+c\theta )}=(r^{c}e^{-d\theta }){\big [}\cos {\big (}d\ln(r)+c\theta {\big )}+i\sin {\big (}d\ln(r)+c\theta {\big )}{\big ]}.}{\displaystyle (r^{c}e^{-d\theta })e^{i(d\ln(r)+c\theta )}=(r^{c}e^{-d\theta }){\big [}\cos {\big (}d\ln(r)+c\theta {\big )}+i\sin {\big (}d\ln(r)+c\theta {\big )}{\big ]}.}
This final formula allows complex powers to be computed easily from decompositions of the base into polar form and the exponent into Cartesian form. It is shown here both in polar form and in Cartesian form (via Euler's identity).

The following examples use the principal value, the branch cut which causes θ to be in the interval (−π, π]. To compute ii, write i in polar and Cartesian forms:

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}i&=1\cdot e^{{\frac {1}{2}}i\pi },\\i&=0+1i.\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}i&=1\cdot e^{{\frac {1}{2}}i\pi },\\i&=0+1i.\end{aligned}}}
Then the formula above, with r = 1, θ = 
π
/
2
, c = 0, and d = 1, yields

{\displaystyle i^{i}=\left(1^{0}e^{-{\frac {1}{2}}\pi }\right)e^{i\left[1\cdot \ln(1)+0\cdot {\frac {1}{2}}\pi \right]}=e^{-{\frac {1}{2}}\pi }\approx 0.2079.}{\displaystyle i^{i}=\left(1^{0}e^{-{\frac {1}{2}}\pi }\right)e^{i\left[1\cdot \ln(1)+0\cdot {\frac {1}{2}}\pi \right]}=e^{-{\frac {1}{2}}\pi }\approx 0.2079.}
Similarly, to find (−2)3 + 4i, compute the polar form of −2:

{\displaystyle -2=2e^{i\pi }}-2=2e^{i\pi }
and use the formula above to compute

{\displaystyle (-2)^{3+4i}=(2^{3}e^{-4\pi })e^{i[4\ln(2)+3\pi ]}\approx (2.602-1.006i)\cdot 10^{-5}.}{\displaystyle (-2)^{3+4i}=(2^{3}e^{-4\pi })e^{i[4\ln(2)+3\pi ]}\approx (2.602-1.006i)\cdot 10^{-5}.}
The value of a complex power depends on the branch used. For example, if the polar form i = 1e5πi/2 is used to compute ii, the power is found to be e−5π/2; the principal value of ii, computed above, is e−π/2. The set of all possible values for ii is given by[25]

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}i&=1\cdot e^{{\frac {1}{2}}i\pi +i2\pi k}\mid k\in \mathbb {Z} ,\\i^{i}&=e^{i\left({\frac {1}{2}}i\pi +i2\pi k\right)}\\&=e^{-\left({\frac {1}{2}}\pi +2\pi k\right)}.\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}i&=1\cdot e^{{\frac {1}{2}}i\pi +i2\pi k}\mid k\in \mathbb {Z} ,\\i^{i}&=e^{i\left({\frac {1}{2}}i\pi +i2\pi k\right)}\\&=e^{-\left({\frac {1}{2}}\pi +2\pi k\right)}.\end{aligned}}}
So there is an infinity of values that are possible candidates for the value of ii, one for each integer k. All of them have a zero imaginary part, so one can say ii has an infinity of valid real values.

Failure of power and logarithm identities
Some identities for powers and logarithms for positive real numbers will fail for complex numbers, no matter how complex powers and complex logarithms are defined as single-valued functions. For example:

The identity log(bx) = x ⋅ log b holds whenever b is a positive real number and x is a real number. But for the principal branch of the complex logarithm one has
{\displaystyle i\pi =\log(-1)=\log \left[(-i)^{2}\right]\neq 2\log(-i)=2\left(-{\frac {i\pi }{2}}\right)=-i\pi }i\pi =\log(-1)=\log \left[(-i)^{2}\right]\neq 2\log(-i)=2\left(-{\frac {i\pi }{2}}\right)=-i\pi 
Regardless of which branch of the logarithm is used, a similar failure of the identity will exist. The best that can be said (if only using this result) is that:

{\displaystyle \log(w^{z})\equiv z\cdot \log(w){\pmod {2\pi i}}}\log(w^{z})\equiv z\cdot \log(w){\pmod {2\pi i}}
This identity does not hold even when considering log as a multivalued function. The possible values of log(wz) contain those of z ⋅ log w as a subset. Using Log(w) for the principal value of log(w) and m, n as any integers the possible values of both sides are:

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}\left\{\log(w^{z})\right\}&=\left\{z\cdot \operatorname {Log} (w)+z\cdot 2\pi in+2\pi im\right\}\\\left\{z\cdot \log(w)\right\}&=\left\{z\cdot \operatorname {Log} (w)+z\cdot 2\pi in\right\}\end{aligned}}}{\begin{aligned}\left\{\log(w^{z})\right\}&=\left\{z\cdot \operatorname {Log} (w)+z\cdot 2\pi in+2\pi im\right\}\\\left\{z\cdot \log(w)\right\}&=\left\{z\cdot \operatorname {Log} (w)+z\cdot 2\pi in\right\}\end{aligned}}
The identities (bc)x = bxcx and (b/c)x = bx/cx are valid when b and c are positive real numbers and x is a real number. But a calculation using principal branches shows that
{\displaystyle 1=(-1\cdot -1)^{\frac {1}{2}}\not =(-1)^{\frac {1}{2}}(-1)^{\frac {1}{2}}=-1}{\displaystyle 1=(-1\cdot -1)^{\frac {1}{2}}\not =(-1)^{\frac {1}{2}}(-1)^{\frac {1}{2}}=-1}
and

{\displaystyle i=(-1)^{\frac {1}{2}}=\left({\frac {1}{-1}}\right)^{\frac {1}{2}}\not ={\frac {1^{\frac {1}{2}}}{(-1)^{\frac {1}{2}}}}={\frac {1}{i}}=-i}{\displaystyle i=(-1)^{\frac {1}{2}}=\left({\frac {1}{-1}}\right)^{\frac {1}{2}}\not ={\frac {1^{\frac {1}{2}}}{(-1)^{\frac {1}{2}}}}={\frac {1}{i}}=-i}
On the other hand, when x is an integer, the identities are valid for all nonzero complex numbers.

If exponentiation is considered as a multivalued function then the possible values of (−1 ⋅ −1)1/2 are {1, −1}. The identity holds, but saying {1} = {(−1 ⋅ −1)1/2} is wrong.
The identity (ex)y = exy holds for real numbers x and y, but assuming its truth for complex numbers leads to the following paradox, discovered in 1827 by Clausen:[26] For any integer n, we have:
{\displaystyle e^{1+2\pi in}=e^{1}e^{2\pi in}=e\cdot 1=e}{\displaystyle e^{1+2\pi in}=e^{1}e^{2\pi in}=e\cdot 1=e}
{\displaystyle \left(e^{1+2\pi in}\right)^{1+2\pi in}=e\qquad }{\displaystyle \left(e^{1+2\pi in}\right)^{1+2\pi in}=e\qquad } (taking the {\displaystyle (1+2\pi in)}{\displaystyle (1+2\pi in)}-th power of both sides)
{\displaystyle e^{1+4\pi in-4\pi ^{2}n^{2}}=e\qquad }{\displaystyle e^{1+4\pi in-4\pi ^{2}n^{2}}=e\qquad } (using {\displaystyle \left(e^{x}\right)^{y}=e^{xy}}{\displaystyle \left(e^{x}\right)^{y}=e^{xy}} and expanding the exponent)
{\displaystyle e^{1}e^{4\pi in}e^{-4\pi ^{2}n^{2}}=e\qquad }{\displaystyle e^{1}e^{4\pi in}e^{-4\pi ^{2}n^{2}}=e\qquad } (using {\displaystyle e^{x+y}=e^{x}e^{y}}{\displaystyle e^{x+y}=e^{x}e^{y}})
{\displaystyle e^{-4\pi ^{2}n^{2}}=1\qquad }{\displaystyle e^{-4\pi ^{2}n^{2}}=1\qquad } (dividing by e)
but this is false when the integer n is nonzero. The error is the following: by definition, {\displaystyle e^{y}}e^{y} is a notation for {\displaystyle \exp(y),}{\displaystyle \exp(y),} a true function, and {\displaystyle x^{y}}x^y is a notation for {\displaystyle \exp(y\log x),}{\displaystyle \exp(y\log x),} which is a multi-valued function. Thus the notation is ambiguous when x = e. Here, before expanding the exponent, the second line should be
{\displaystyle \exp \left((1+2\pi in)\log \exp(1+2\pi in)\right)=\exp(1+2\pi in).}{\displaystyle \exp \left((1+2\pi in)\log \exp(1+2\pi in)\right)=\exp(1+2\pi in).}
Therefore, when expanding the exponent, one has implicitly supposed that {\displaystyle \log \exp z=z}{\displaystyle \log \exp z=z} for complex values of z, which is wrong, as the complex logarithm is multivalued. In other words, the wrong identity (ex)y = exy must be replaced by the identity
{\displaystyle \left(e^{x}\right)^{y}=e^{y\log e^{x}},}{\displaystyle \left(e^{x}\right)^{y}=e^{y\log e^{x}},}
which is a true identity between multivalued functions.
Generalizations
Monoids
Exponentiation with integer exponents can be defined in any multiplicative monoid.[27] A monoid is an algebraic structure consisting of a set X together with a rule for composition ("multiplication") satisfying an associative law and a multiplicative identity, denoted by 1. Exponentiation is defined inductively by

{\displaystyle x^{0}=1}{\displaystyle x^{0}=1} for all {\displaystyle x\in X}x\in X,
{\displaystyle x^{n+1}=x^{n}x}{\displaystyle x^{n+1}=x^{n}x} for all {\displaystyle x\in X}x\in X and non-negative integers n,
If n is a negative integer, then {\displaystyle x^{n}}x^{n} is only defined[28] if {\displaystyle x}x has an inverse in X.
Monoids include many structures of importance in mathematics, including groups and rings (under multiplication), with more specific examples of the latter being matrix rings and fields.

Matrices and linear operators
If A is a square matrix, then the product of A with itself n times is called the matrix power. Also {\displaystyle A^{0}}A^{0} is defined to be the identity matrix,[29] and if A is invertible, then {\displaystyle A^{-n}=\left(A^{-1}\right)^{n}}{\displaystyle A^{-n}=\left(A^{-1}\right)^{n}}.

Matrix powers appear often in the context of discrete dynamical systems, where the matrix A expresses a transition from a state vector x of some system to the next state Ax of the system.[30] This is the standard interpretation of a Markov chain, for example. Then {\displaystyle A^{2}x}A^{2}x is the state of the system after two time steps, and so forth: {\displaystyle A^{n}x}A^{n}x is the state of the system after n time steps. The matrix power {\displaystyle A^{n}}A^{n} is the transition matrix between the state now and the state at a time n steps in the future. So computing matrix powers is equivalent to solving the evolution of the dynamical system. In many cases, matrix powers can be expediently computed by using eigenvalues and eigenvectors.

Apart from matrices, more general linear operators can also be exponentiated. An example is the derivative operator of calculus, {\displaystyle d/dx}d/dx, which is a linear operator acting on functions {\displaystyle f(x)}f(x) to give a new function {\displaystyle (d/dx)f(x)=f'(x)}{\displaystyle (d/dx)f(x)=f'(x)}. The n-th power of the differentiation operator is the n-th derivative:

{\displaystyle \left({\frac {d}{dx}}\right)^{n}f(x)={\frac {d^{n}}{dx^{n}}}f(x)=f^{(n)}(x).}\left({\frac {d}{dx}}\right)^{n}f(x)={\frac {d^{n}}{dx^{n}}}f(x)=f^{(n)}(x).
These examples are for discrete exponents of linear operators, but in many circumstances it is also desirable to define powers of such operators with continuous exponents. This is the starting point of the mathematical theory of semigroups.[31] Just as computing matrix powers with discrete exponents solves discrete dynamical systems, so does computing matrix powers with continuous exponents solve systems with continuous dynamics. Examples include approaches to solving the heat equation, Schrödinger equation, wave equation, and other partial differential equations including a time evolution. The special case of exponentiating the derivative operator to a non-integer power is called the fractional derivative which, together with the fractional integral, is one of the basic operations of the fractional calculus.

Finite fields
A field is an algebraic structure in which multiplication, addition, subtraction, and division are all well-defined and satisfy their familiar properties. The real numbers, for example, form a field, as do the complex numbers and rational numbers. Unlike these familiar examples of fields, which are all infinite sets, some fields have only finitely many elements. The simplest example is the field with two elements {\displaystyle F_{2}=\{0,1\}}F_{2}=\{0,1\} with addition defined by {\displaystyle 0+1=1+0=1}0+1=1+0=1 and {\displaystyle 0+0=1+1=0}0+0=1+1=0, and multiplication {\displaystyle 0\cdot 0=1\cdot 0=0\cdot 1=0}0\cdot 0=1\cdot 0=0\cdot 1=0 and {\displaystyle 1\cdot 1=1}1\cdot 1=1.

Exponentiation in finite fields has applications in public key cryptography. For example, the Diffie–Hellman key exchange uses the fact that exponentiation is computationally inexpensive in finite fields, whereas the discrete logarithm (the inverse of exponentiation) is computationally expensive.

Any finite field F has the property that there is a unique prime number p such that {\displaystyle px=0}px=0 for all x in F; that is, x added to itself p times is zero. For example, in {\displaystyle F_{2}}F_{2}, the prime number p = 2 has this property. This prime number is called the characteristic of the field. Suppose that F is a field of characteristic p, and consider the function {\displaystyle f(x)=x^{p}}f(x)=x^{p} that raises each element of F to the power p. This is called the Frobenius automorphism of F. It is an automorphism of the field because of the Freshman's dream identity {\displaystyle (x+y)^{p}=x^{p}+y^{p}}(x+y)^{p}=x^{p}+y^{p}. The Frobenius automorphism is important in number theory because it generates the Galois group of F over its prime subfield.

In abstract algebra
Exponentiation for integer exponents can be defined for quite general structures in abstract algebra.

Let X be a set with a power-associative binary operation which is written multiplicatively. Then xn is defined for any element x of X and any nonzero natural number n as the product of n copies of x, which is recursively defined by

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}x^{1}&=x,\\x^{n}&=x^{n-1}x\quad {\text{for }}n>1.\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}x^{1}&=x,\\x^{n}&=x^{n-1}x\quad {\text{for }}n>1.\end{aligned}}}
One has the following properties

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}(x^{i}x^{j})x^{k}&=x^{i}(x^{j}x^{k}),&&{\text{(power-associative property)}}\\x^{m+n}&=x^{m}x^{n},\\(x^{m})^{n}&=x^{mn}.\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}(x^{i}x^{j})x^{k}&=x^{i}(x^{j}x^{k}),&&{\text{(power-associative property)}}\\x^{m+n}&=x^{m}x^{n},\\(x^{m})^{n}&=x^{mn}.\end{aligned}}}
If the operation has a two-sided identity element 1, then x0 is defined to be equal to 1 for any x:[citation needed]

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}x1&=1x=x,&&{\text{(two-sided identity)}}\\x^{0}&=1.\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}x1&=1x=x,&&{\text{(two-sided identity)}}\\x^{0}&=1.\end{aligned}}}
If the operation also has two-sided inverses and is associative, then the magma is a group. The inverse of x can be denoted by x−1 and follows all the usual rules for exponents:

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}xx^{-1}&=x^{-1}x=1,&&{\text{(two-sided inverse)}}\\(xy)z&=x(yz),&&{\text{(associative)}}\\x^{-n}&=(x^{-1})^{n},\\x^{m-n}&=x^{m}x^{-n}.\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}xx^{-1}&=x^{-1}x=1,&&{\text{(two-sided inverse)}}\\(xy)z&=x(yz),&&{\text{(associative)}}\\x^{-n}&=(x^{-1})^{n},\\x^{m-n}&=x^{m}x^{-n}.\end{aligned}}}
If the multiplication operation is commutative (as, for instance, in abelian groups), then the following holds:

{\displaystyle (xy)^{n}=x^{n}y^{n}.}{\displaystyle (xy)^{n}=x^{n}y^{n}.}
If the binary operation is written additively, as it often is for abelian groups, then "exponentiation is repeated multiplication" can be reinterpreted as "multiplication is repeated addition". Thus, each of the laws of exponentiation above has an analogue among laws of multiplication.

When there are several power-associative binary operations defined on a set, any of which might be iterated, it is common to indicate which operation is being repeated by placing its symbol in the superscript. Thus, x∗n is x ∗ ... ∗ x, while x#n is x # ... # x, whatever the operations ∗ and # might be.

Superscript notation is also used, especially in group theory, to indicate conjugation. That is, gh = h−1gh, where g and h are elements of some group. Although conjugation obeys some of the same laws as exponentiation, it is not an example of repeated multiplication in any sense. A quandle is an algebraic structure in which these laws of conjugation play a central role.

Over sets
Main article: Cartesian product
If n is a natural number, and A is an arbitrary set, then the expression An is often used to denote the set of ordered n-tuples of elements of A. This is equivalent to letting An denote the set of functions from the set {0, 1, 2, ..., n − 1} to the set A; the n-tuple (a0, a1, a2, ..., an−1) represents the function that sends i to ai.

For an infinite cardinal number κ and a set A, the notation Aκ is also used to denote the set of all functions from a set of size κ to A. This is sometimes written κA to distinguish it from cardinal exponentiation, defined below.

This generalized exponential can also be defined for operations on sets or for sets with extra structure. For example, in linear algebra, it makes sense to index direct sums of vector spaces over arbitrary index sets. That is, we can speak of

{\displaystyle \bigoplus _{i\in \mathbb {N} }V_{i},}{\displaystyle \bigoplus _{i\in \mathbb {N} }V_{i},}
where each Vi is a vector space.

Then if Vi = V for each i, the resulting direct sum can be written in exponential notation as V⊕N, or simply VN with the understanding that the direct sum is the default. We can again replace the set N with a cardinal number n to get Vn, although without choosing a specific standard set with cardinality n, this is defined only up to isomorphism. Taking V to be the field R of real numbers (thought of as a vector space over itself) and n to be some natural number, we get the vector space that is most commonly studied in linear algebra, the real vector space Rn.

If the base of the exponentiation operation is a set, the exponentiation operation is the Cartesian product unless otherwise stated. Since multiple Cartesian products produce an n-tuple, which can be represented by a function on a set of appropriate cardinality, SN becomes simply the set of all functions from N to S in this case:

{\displaystyle S^{N}\equiv \{f\colon N\to S\}.}{\displaystyle S^{N}\equiv \{f\colon N\to S\}.}
This fits in with the exponentiation of cardinal numbers, in the sense that |SN| = |S||N|, where |X| is the cardinality of X. When "2" is defined as {0, 1}, we have |2X| = 2|X|, where 2X, usually denoted by P(X), is the power set of X; each subset Y of X corresponds uniquely to a function on X taking the value 1 for x ∈ Y and 0 for x ∉ Y.

In category theory
Main article: Cartesian closed category
In a Cartesian closed category, the exponential operation can be used to raise an arbitrary object to the power of another object. This generalizes the Cartesian product in the category of sets. If 0 is an initial object in a Cartesian closed category, then the exponential object 00 is isomorphic to any terminal object 1.

Of cardinal and ordinal numbers
Main articles: Cardinal arithmetic and Ordinal arithmetic
In set theory, there are exponential operations for cardinal and ordinal numbers.

If κ and λ are cardinal numbers, the expression κλ represents the cardinality of the set of functions from any set of cardinality λ to any set of cardinality κ.[32] If κ and λ are finite, then this agrees with the ordinary arithmetic exponential operation. For example, the set of 3-tuples of elements from a 2-element set has cardinality 8 = 23. In cardinal arithmetic, κ0 is always 1 (even if κ is an infinite cardinal or zero).

Exponentiation of cardinal numbers is distinct from exponentiation of ordinal numbers, which is defined by a limit process involving transfinite induction.

Repeated exponentiation
Main articles: Tetration and Hyperoperation
Just as exponentiation of natural numbers is motivated by repeated multiplication, it is possible to define an operation based on repeated exponentiation; this operation is sometimes called hyper-4 or tetration. Iterating tetration leads to another operation, and so on, a concept named hyperoperation. This sequence of operations is expressed by the Ackermann function and Knuth's up-arrow notation. Just as exponentiation grows faster than multiplication, which is faster-growing than addition, tetration is faster-growing than exponentiation. Evaluated at (3, 3), the functions addition, multiplication, exponentiation, and tetration yield 6, 9, 27, and 7625597484987 (= 327 = 333 = 33) respectively.

Limits of powers
Zero to the power of zero gives a number of examples of limits that are of the indeterminate form 00. The limits in these examples exist, but have different values, showing that the two-variable function xy has no limit at the point (0, 0). One may consider at what points this function does have a limit.

More precisely, consider the function f(x, y) = xy defined on D = {(x, y) ∈ R2 : x > 0}. Then D can be viewed as a subset of R2 (that is, the set of all pairs (x, y) with x, y belonging to the extended real number line R = [−∞, +∞], endowed with the product topology), which will contain the points at which the function f has a limit.

In fact, f has a limit at all accumulation points of D, except for (0, 0), (+∞, 0), (1, +∞) and (1, −∞).[33] Accordingly, this allows one to define the powers xy by continuity whenever 0 ≤ x ≤ +∞, −∞ ≤ y ≤ +∞, except for 00, (+∞)0, 1+∞ and 1−∞, which remain indeterminate forms.

Under this definition by continuity, we obtain:

x+∞ = +∞ and x−∞ = 0, when 1 < x ≤ +∞.
x+∞ = 0 and x−∞ = +∞, when 0 ≤ x < 1.
0y = 0 and (+∞)y = +∞, when 0 < y ≤ +∞.
0y = +∞ and (+∞)y = 0, when −∞ ≤ y < 0.
These powers are obtained by taking limits of xy for positive values of x. This method does not permit a definition of xy when x < 0, since pairs (x, y) with x < 0 are not accumulation points of D.

On the other hand, when n is an integer, the power xn is already meaningful for all values of x, including negative ones. This may make the definition 0n = +∞ obtained above for negative n problematic when n is odd, since in this case xn → +∞ as x tends to 0 through positive values, but not negative ones.

Efficient computation with integer exponents
Computing bn using iterated multiplication requires n − 1 multiplication operations, but it can be computed more efficiently than that, as illustrated by the following example. To compute 2100, note that 100 = 64 + 32 + 4. Compute the following in order:

22 = 4
(22)2 = 24 = 16.
(24)2 = 28 = 256.
(28)2 = 216 = 65536.
(216)2 = 232 = 4294967296.
(232)2 = 264 = 18446744073709551616.
264 232 24 = 2100 = 1267650600228229401496703205376.
This series of steps only requires 8 multiplication operations (the last product above takes 2 multiplications) instead of 99.

In general, the number of multiplication operations required to compute bn can be reduced to Θ(log n) by using exponentiation by squaring or (more generally) addition-chain exponentiation. Finding the minimal sequence of multiplications (the minimal-length addition chain for the exponent) for bn is a difficult problem, for which no efficient algorithms are currently known (see Subset sum problem), but many reasonably efficient heuristic algorithms are available.[34]

Exponential notation for function names
Placing an integer superscript after the name or symbol of a function, as if the function were being raised to a power, commonly refers to repeated function composition rather than repeated multiplication.[35][36][37] Thus, f3(x) may mean f(f(f(x)));[38] in particular, f−1(x) usually denotes the inverse function of f. This notation was introduced by Hans Heinrich Bürmann[citation needed][36][37] and John Frederick William Herschel.[35][36][37] Iterated functions are of interest in the study of fractals and dynamical systems. Babbage was the first to study the problem of finding a functional square root f1/2(x).

To distinguish exponentiation from function composition, the common usage is to write the exponential exponent after the parenthesis enclosing the argument of the function; that is, f(x)3 means (f(x))3, and f(x)–1 means 1/f(x).

For historical reasons, and because of the ambiguity resulting of not enclosing arguments with parentheses, a superscript after a function name applied specifically to the trigonometric and hyperbolic functions has a deviating meaning: a positive exponent applied to the function's abbreviation means that the result is raised to that power,[39][40][41][42][43][44][45][17][37] while an exponent of −1 still denotes the inverse function.[37] That is, sin2 x is just a shorthand way to write (sin x)2 = sin(x)2 without using parentheses,[13][46][47][48][49][50][51][17] whereas sin−1 x refers to the inverse function of the sine, also called arcsin x. Each trigonometric and hyperbolic function has its own name and abbreviation both for the reciprocal (for example, 1/(sin x) = (sin x)−1 = sin(x)−1 = csc x), and its inverse (for example cosh−1 x = arcosh x). A similar convention exists for logarithms,[37] where today log2 x usually means (log x)2, not log log x.[37]

To avoid ambiguity, some mathematicians[citation needed] choose to use ∘ to denote the compositional meaning, writing f∘n(x) for the n-th iterate of the function f(x), as in, for example, f∘3(x) meaning f(f(f(x))). For the same purpose, f[n](x) was used by Benjamin Peirce[52][37] whereas Alfred Pringsheim and Jules Molk suggested nf(x) instead.[53][37][nb 1]50 (fifty) is the natural number following 49 and preceding 51. Fifty is the smallest number that is the sum of two non-zero square numbers in two distinct ways: 50 = 12 + 72 = 52 + 52. It is also the sum of three squares, 50 = 32 + 42 + 52, and the sum of four squares, 50 = 62 + 32 + 22 + 12. It is a Harshad number. There is no solution to the equation φ(x) = 50, making 50 a nontotient. Nor is there a solution to the equation x − φ(x) = 50, making 50 a noncototient.5 (five) is a number, numeral, and glyph. It is the natural number following 4 and preceding 6, and is a prime number. It has attained significance throughout history in part because typical humans have five digits on each hand. Five is the third prime number. Because it can be written as 221 + 1, five is classified as a Fermat prime; therefore a regular polygon with 5 sides (a regular pentagon) is constructible with compass and unmarked straightedge. Five is the third Sophie Germain prime, the first safe prime, the third Catalan number, and the third Mersenne prime exponent. Five is the first Wilson prime and the third factorial prime, also an alternating factorial. Five is the first good prime. It is an Eisenstein prime with no imaginary part and real part of the form 3n − 1. It is also the only number that is part of more than one pair of twin primes. Five is a congruent number. Five is conjectured to be the only odd untouchable number and if this is the case then five will be the only odd prime number that is not the base of an aliquot tree. Five is also the only prime that is the sum of two consecutive primes, namely 2 and 3. The number 5 is the fifth Fibonacci number, being 2 plus 3. It is the only Fibonacci number that is equal to its position. 5 is also a Pell number and a Markov number, appearing in solutions to the Markov Diophantine equation: (1, 2, 5), (1, 5, 13), (2, 5, 29), (5, 13, 194), (5, 29, 433), ... (OEIS: A030452 lists Markov numbers that appear in solutions where one of the other two terms is 5). Whereas 5 is unique in the Fibonacci sequence, in the Perrin sequence 5 is both the fifth and sixth Perrin numbers. 5 is the length of the hypotenuse of the smallest integer-sided right triangle. In bases 10 and 20, 5 is a 1-automorphic number. Five is the second Sierpinski number of the first kind, and can be written as S2 = (22) + 1. While polynomial equations of degree 4 and below can be solved with radicals, equations of degree 5 and higher cannot generally be so solved. This is the Abel–Ruffini theorem. This is related to the fact that the symmetric group Sn is a solvable group for n ≤ 4 and not solvable for n ≥ 5. While all graphs with 4 or fewer vertices are planar, there exists a graph with 5 vertices which is not planar: K5, the complete graph with 5 vertices. There are five Platonic solids. A polygon with five sides is a pentagon. Figurate numbers representing pentagons (including five) are called pentagonal numbers. Five is also a square pyramidal number. Five is the only prime number to end in the digit 5 because all other numbers written with a 5 in the ones place under the decimal system are multiples of five. As a consequence of this, 5 is in base 10 a 1-automorphic number. Vulgar fractions with 5 or 2 in the denominator do not yield infinite decimal expansions, unlike expansions with all other prime denominators, because they are prime factors of ten, the base. When written in the decimal system, all multiples of 5 will end in either 5 or 0. There are five Exceptional Lie groups. In the powers of 5, every power ends with the number five and from 53, if the exponent is odd, then the hundreds digit is 1; instead, if it is even, the hundreds digit is 6. In fifth powers, n5 ends in the same digit as n.4 (four) is a number, numeral, and glyph. It is the natural number following 3 and preceding 5. It is the smallest composite number, and is considered unlucky in many East Asian cultures. Four is the smallest composite number, its proper divisors being 1 and 2. 4 is the smallest squared prime (p2) and the only even number in this form. 4 is also the only square one more than a prime number. A number is a multiple of 4 if its last two digits are a multiple of 4. For example, 1092 is a multiple of 4 because 92 = 4 × 23. In addition, 2 + 2 = 2 × 2 = 4. Continuing the pattern in Knuth's up-arrow notation, 2 ↑↑ 2 = 2 ↑↑↑ 2 = 4, and so on, for any number of up arrows. (That is, 2 [n] 2 = 4 for every positive integer n, where a [n] b is the hyperoperation.) A four-sided plane figure is a quadrilateral (quadrangle) which include kites, rhombi, rectangles and squares, sometimes also called a tetragon. A circle divided by 4 makes right angles and four quadrants. Because of it, four (4) is the base number of the plane (mathematics). A solid figure with four faces as well as four vertices is a tetrahedron, and 4 is the smallest possible number of faces (as well as vertices) of a polyhedron. The regular tetrahedron is the simplest Platonic solid. A tetrahedron, which can also be called a 3-simplex, has four triangular faces and four vertices. It is the only self-dual regular polyhedron. Four-dimensional space is the highest-dimensional space featuring more than three convex regular figures: Two-dimensional: infinitely many convex regular polygons. Three-dimensional: five convex regular polyhedra (the five Platonic solids). Four-dimensional: six convex regular polychora. Five-dimensional and every higher-dimensional: three regular convex polytopes (regular simplexes, hypercubes, cross-polytopes). Four-dimensional differential manifolds have some unique properties. There is only one differential structure on ℝn except when n = 4, in which case there are uncountably many. The smallest non-cyclic group has four elements; it is the Klein four-group. Four is also the order of the smallest non-trivial groups that are not simple. Four is the only integer n for which the (non trivial) alternating group An is not simple. Four is the maximum number of dimensions of a real associative division algebra (the quaternions), by a theorem of Ferdinand Georg Frobenius. The four-color theorem states that a planar graph (or, equivalently, a flat map of two-dimensional regions such as countries) can be colored using four colors, so that adjacent vertices (or regions) are always different colors. Three colors are not, in general, sufficient to guarantee this. The largest planar complete graph has four vertices. Lagrange's four-square theorem states that every positive integer can be written as the sum of at most four square numbers. Three are not always sufficient; 7 for instance cannot be written as the sum of three squares. Each natural number divisible by 4 is a difference of squares of two natural numbers, i.e. 4x = y2 − z2. Four is the highest degree general polynomial equation for which there is a solution in radicals.40 (forty) is the natural number following 39 and preceding 41. Though the word is related to "four" (4), the spelling "forty" replaced "fourty" in the course of the 17th century and is now the standard form. Forty is a composite number, an octagonal number, and as the sum of the first four pentagonal numbers: 1+5+12+22=40, it is a pentagonal pyramidal number. Adding up some subsets of its divisors (e.g., 1, 4, 5, 10 and 20) gives 40, hence 40 is a semiperfect number. Given 40, the Mertens function returns 0. 40 is the smallest number n with exactly 9 solutions to the equation φ(x) = n. Forty is the number of n-queens problem solutions for n = 7. 40 is a repdigit in base 3 (1111, i.e., 30 + 31 + 32 + 33, or in other words (34 - 1)/2) and a Harshad number in base 10.A fraction (from Latin fractus, "broken") represents a part of a whole or, more generally, any number of equal parts. When spoken in everyday English, a fraction describes how many parts of a certain size there are, for example, one-half, eight-fifths, three-quarters. A common, vulgar, or simple fraction (examples: {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}} and {\displaystyle {\tfrac {17}{3}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {17}{3}}}) consists of a numerator displayed above a line (or before a slash), and a non-zero denominator, displayed below (or after) that line. Numerators and denominators are also used in fractions that are not common, including compound fractions, complex fractions, and mixed numerals.

In positive common fractions, the numerator and denominator are natural numbers. The numerator represents a number of equal parts, and the denominator indicates how many of those parts make up a unit or a whole. The denominator cannot be zero because zero parts can never make up a whole. For example, in the fraction 3⁄4, the numerator, 3, tells us that the fraction represents 3 equal parts, and the denominator, 4, tells us that 4 parts make up a whole. The picture to the right illustrates {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}}{\tfrac {3}{4}}or ​3⁄4 of a cake.

A common fraction is a numeral which represents a rational number. That same number can also be represented as a decimal, a percent, or with a negative exponent. For example, 0.01, 1%, and 10−2 all equal the fraction 1/100. An integer such as the number 7 can be thought of as having an implicit denominator of one: 7 equals 7/1.

Other uses for fractions are to represent ratios and division.[1] Thus the fraction 
3
/
4
 is also used to represent the ratio 3:4 (the ratio of the part to the whole) and the division 3 ÷ 4 (three divided by four). The non-zero denominator in the case using a fraction to represent division is an example of the rule that division by zero is undefined.

We can also write negative fractions, which represent the opposite of a positive fraction. For example, if 
1
/
2
 represents a half dollar profit, then −
1
/
2
 represents a half dollar loss. Because of the rules of division of signed numbers, which require that, for example, negative divided by positive is negative, −
1
/
2
, 
–1
/
2
 and 
1
/
–2
, all represent the same fraction, negative one-half. Because a negative divided by a negative produces a positive, 
–1
/
–2
 represents positive one-half.

In mathematics the set of all numbers that can be expressed in the form a/b, where a and b are integers and b is not zero, is called the set of rational numbers and is represented by the symbol Q, which stands for quotient. The test for a number being a rational number is that it can be written in that form (i.e., as a common fraction). However, the word fraction is also used to describe mathematical expressions that are not rational numbers, for example algebraic fractions (quotients of algebraic expressions), and expressions that contain irrational numbers, such as √2/2 (see square root of 2) and π/4 (see proof that π is irrational).

In a fraction, the number of equal parts being described is the numerator (from Latin numerātor, "counter" or "numberer"), and the type or variety of the parts is the denominator (from Latin dēnōminātor, "thing that names or designates").[2] As an example, the fraction ​8⁄5 amounts to eight parts, each of which is of the type named "fifth". In terms of division, the numerator corresponds to the dividend, and the denominator corresponds to the divisor.

Informally, the numerator and denominator may be distinguished by placement alone but in formal contexts they are usually separated by a fraction bar. The fraction bar may be horizontal (as in 
1
/
3
), oblique (as in 2/5), or diagonal (as in ​4⁄9).[3] These marks are respectively known as the horizontal bar; the virgule, slash (US), or stroke (UK); and the fraction bar, solidus, or fraction slash.[n 1] In typography, fractions stacked vertically are also known as "en" or "nut fractions", and diagonal ones as "em" or "mutton fractions", based on whether a fraction with a single-digit numerator and denominator occupies the proportion of a narrow en square, or a wider em square.[3] In traditional typefounding, a piece of type bearing a complete fraction (e.g. 
1
/
2
) was known as a "case fraction," while those representing only part of fraction were called "piece fractions."

The denominators of English fractions are generally expressed as ordinal numbers, in the plural if the numerator is not one. (For example, ​2⁄5 and ​3⁄5 are both read as a number of "fifths".) Exceptions include the denominator 2, which is always read "half" or "halves", the denominator 4, which may be alternatively expressed as "quarter"/"quarters" or as "fourth"/"fourths", and the denominator 100, which may be alternatively expressed as "hundredth"/"hundredths" or "percent". When the denominator is 1, it may be expressed in terms of "wholes" but is more commonly ignored, with the numerator read out as a whole number. (For example, 
3
/
1
 may be described as "three wholes" or as simply "three".) When the numerator is one, it may be omitted. (For example, "a tenth" or "each quarter".)

The entire fraction may be expressed as a single composition, in which case it is hyphenated, or as a number of fractions with a numerator of one, in which case they are not. (For example, "two-fifths" is the fraction 
2
/
5
 and "two fifths" is the same fraction understood as 2 instances of ​1⁄5.) Fractions should always be hyphenated when used as adjectives. Alternatively, a fraction may be described by reading it out as the numerator "over" the denominator, with the denominator expressed as a cardinal number. (For example, 
3
/
1
 may also be expressed as "three over one".) The term "over" is used even in the case of solidus fractions, where the numbers are placed left and right of a slash mark. (For example, 1/2 may be read "one-half", "one half", or "one over two".) Fractions with large denominators that are not powers of ten are often rendered in this fashion (e.g., 
1
/
117
 as "one over one hundred seventeen") while those with denominators divisible by ten are typically read in the normal ordinal fashion (e.g., 
6
/
1000000
 as "six-millionths", "six millionths", or "six one-millionths").

Forms of fractions
Simple, common, or vulgar fractions
A simple fraction (also known as a common fraction or vulgar fraction) is a rational number written as a/b or {\displaystyle {\tfrac {a}{b}}}{\tfrac {a}{b}}, where a and b are both integers.[7] As with other fractions, the denominator (b) cannot be zero. Examples include {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}, {\displaystyle -{\tfrac {8}{5}}}-{\tfrac {8}{5}}, {\displaystyle {\tfrac {-8}{5}}}{\tfrac {-8}{5}}, and {\displaystyle {\tfrac {8}{-5}}}{\tfrac {8}{-5}}. Simple fractions can be positive or negative, and they can be proper or improper (see below). Compound fractions, complex fractions, mixed numerals, and decimals (see below) are not simple fractions; though, unless irrational, they can be evaluated to a simple fraction.

A unit fraction is a common fraction with a numerator of 1, e.g. {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{7}}}{\tfrac {1}{7}}. Unit fractions can also be expressed using negative exponents, as in 2−1, which represents 1/2, and 2−2, which represents 1/(22) or 1/4.
A dyadic fraction is a common fraction in which the denominator is a power of two, e.g. {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{8}}={\tfrac {1}{2^{3}}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{8}}={\tfrac {1}{2^{3}}}}.
Proper and improper fractions
Common fractions can be classified as either proper or improper. When the numerator and the denominator are both positive, the fraction is called proper if the numerator is less than the denominator, and improper otherwise.[8][9] In general, a common fraction is said to be a proper fraction if the absolute value of the fraction is strictly less than one—that is, if the fraction is greater than −1 and less than 1.[10][11] It is said to be an improper fraction, or sometimes top-heavy fraction,[12] if the absolute value of the fraction is greater than or equal to 1. Examples of proper fractions are 2/3, –3/4, and 4/9; examples of improper fractions are 9/4, –4/3, and 3/3.

Reciprocals and the "invisible denominator"
The reciprocal of a fraction is another fraction with the numerator and denominator exchanged. The reciprocal of {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{7}}}{\tfrac {3}{7}}, for instance, is {\displaystyle {\tfrac {7}{3}}}{\tfrac {7}{3}}. The product of a fraction and its reciprocal is 1, hence the reciprocal is the multiplicative inverse of a fraction. The reciprocal of a proper fraction is improper, and the reciprocal of an improper fraction not equal to 1 (that is, numerator and denominator are not equal) is a proper fraction.

When the numerator and denominator of a fraction are equal ({\displaystyle {\tfrac {7}{7}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {7}{7}}}, for example), its value is 1, and the fraction therefore is improper. Its reciprocal also has the value 1, and is improper, too.

Any integer can be written as a fraction with the number one as denominator. For example, 17 can be written as {\displaystyle {\tfrac {17}{1}}}{\tfrac {17}{1}}, where 1 is sometimes referred to as the invisible denominator. Therefore, every fraction or integer, except for zero, has a reciprocal. The reciprocal of 17 is {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{17}}}{\tfrac {1}{17}}.

Ratios
A ratio is a relationship between two or more numbers that can be sometimes expressed as a fraction. Typically, a number of items are grouped and compared in a ratio, specifying numerically the relationship between each group. Ratios are expressed as "group 1 to group 2 ... to group n". For example, if a car lot had 12 vehicles, of which

2 are white,
6 are red, and
4 are yellow,
then the ratio of red to white to yellow cars is 6 to 2 to 4. The ratio of yellow cars to white cars is 4 to 2 and may be expressed as 4:2 or 2:1.

A ratio is often converted to a fraction when it is expressed as a ratio to the whole. In the above example, the ratio of yellow cars to all the cars on the lot is 4:12 or 1:3. We can convert these ratios to a fraction and say that 4/12 of the cars or ⅓ of the cars in the lot are yellow. Therefore, if a person randomly chose one car on the lot, then there is a one in three chance or probability that it would be yellow.

Decimal fractions and percentages
A decimal fraction is a fraction whose denominator is not given explicitly, but is understood to be an integer power of ten. Decimal fractions are commonly expressed using decimal notation in which the implied denominator is determined by the number of digits to the right of a decimal separator, the appearance of which (e.g., a period, a raised period (•), a comma) depends on the locale (for examples, see decimal separator). Thus for 0.75 the numerator is 75 and the implied denominator is 10 to the second power, viz. 100, because there are two digits to the right of the decimal separator. In decimal numbers greater than 1 (such as 3.75), the fractional part of the number is expressed by the digits to the right of the decimal (with a value of 0.75 in this case). 3.75 can be written either as an improper fraction, 375/100, or as a mixed number, {\displaystyle 3{\tfrac {75}{100}}}3{\tfrac {75}{100}}.

Decimal fractions can also be expressed using scientific notation with negative exponents, such as 6.023×10−7, which represents 0.0000006023. The 10−7 represents a denominator of 107. Dividing by 107 moves the decimal point 7 places to the left.

Decimal fractions with infinitely many digits to the right of the decimal separator represent an infinite series. For example, 
1
/
3
 = 0.333... represents the infinite series 3/10 + 3/100 + 3/1000 + ... .

Another kind of fraction is the percentage (Latin per centum meaning "per hundred", represented by the symbol %), in which the implied denominator is always 100. Thus, 51% means 51/100. Percentages greater than 100 or less than zero are treated in the same way, e.g. 311% equals 311/100, and −27% equals −27/100.

The related concept of permille or parts per thousand (ppt) has an implied denominator of 1000, while the more general parts-per notation, as in 75 parts per million (ppm), means that the proportion is 75/1,000,000.

Whether common fractions or decimal fractions are used is often a matter of taste and context. Common fractions are used most often when the denominator is relatively small. By mental calculation, it is easier to multiply 16 by 3/16 than to do the same calculation using the fraction's decimal equivalent (0.1875). And it is more accurate to multiply 15 by 1/3, for example, than it is to multiply 15 by any decimal approximation of one third. Monetary values are commonly expressed as decimal fractions with denominator 100, i.e., with two decimals, for example $3.75. However, as noted above, in pre-decimal British currency, shillings and pence were often given the form (but not the meaning) of a fraction, as, for example 3/6 (read "three and six") meaning 3 shillings and 6 pence, and having no relationship to the fraction 3/6.

Mixed numbers
A mixed numeral (also called a mixed fraction or mixed number) is a traditional denotation of the sum of a non-zero integer and a proper fraction (having the same sign). It is used primarily in measurement: {\displaystyle 2{\tfrac {3}{16}}}{\displaystyle 2{\tfrac {3}{16}}}inches, for example. Scientific measurements almost invariably use decimal notation rather than mixed numbers. The sum is implied without the use of a visible operator such as the appropriate "+". For example, in referring to two entire cakes and three quarters of another cake, the numerals denoting the integer part and the fractional part of the cakes are written next to each other as {\displaystyle 2{\tfrac {3}{4}}}2{\tfrac {3}{4}}instead of the unambiguous notation {\displaystyle 2+{\tfrac {3}{4}}.}{\displaystyle 2+{\tfrac {3}{4}}.} Negative mixed numerals, as in {\displaystyle -2{\tfrac {3}{4}}}-2{\tfrac {3}{4}}, are treated like {\displaystyle -(2+{\tfrac {3}{4}}).}{\displaystyle -(2+{\tfrac {3}{4}}).} Any such sum of a whole plus a part can be converted to an improper fraction by applying the rules of adding unlike quantities.

This tradition is, formally, in conflict with the notation in algebra where adjacent symbols, without an explicit infix operator, denote a product. In the expression {\displaystyle 2x}2x, the "understood" operation is multiplication. If {\displaystyle x}x is replaced by, for example, the fraction {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}}, the "understood" multiplication needs to be replaced by explicit multiplication, to avoid the appearance of a mixed number.

When multiplication is intended, {\displaystyle 2{\tfrac {b}{c}}}{\displaystyle 2{\tfrac {b}{c}}} may be written as

{\displaystyle 2\cdot {\tfrac {b}{c}},\quad }{\displaystyle 2\cdot {\tfrac {b}{c}},\quad } or {\displaystyle \quad 2\times {\tfrac {b}{c}},\quad }{\displaystyle \quad 2\times {\tfrac {b}{c}},\quad } or {\displaystyle \quad 2\left({\tfrac {b}{c}}\right),\;\ldots }{\displaystyle \quad 2\left({\tfrac {b}{c}}\right),\;\ldots }
An improper fraction can be converted to a mixed number as follows:

Using Euclidean division (division with remainder), divide the numerator by the denominator. In the example, {\displaystyle {\tfrac {11}{4}}}{\tfrac {11}{4}}, divide 11 by 4. 11 ÷ 4 = 2 remainder 3.
The quotient (without the remainder) becomes the whole number part of the mixed number. The remainder becomes the numerator of the fractional part. In the example, 2 is the whole number part and 3 is the numerator of the fractional part.
The new denominator is the same as the denominator of the improper fraction. In the example, it is 4. Thus {\displaystyle {\tfrac {11}{4}}=2{\tfrac {3}{4}}}{\tfrac {11}{4}}=2{\tfrac {3}{4}}.
Historical notions
Egyptian fraction
An Egyptian fraction is the sum of distinct positive unit fractions, for example {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}+{\tfrac {1}{3}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}+{\tfrac {1}{3}}. This definition derives from the fact that the ancient Egyptians expressed all fractions except {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}, {\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{3}}}{\tfrac {2}{3}} and {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}}{\tfrac {3}{4}} in this manner. Every positive rational number can be expanded as an Egyptian fraction. For example, {\displaystyle {\tfrac {5}{7}}}{\tfrac {5}{7}} can be written as {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}+{\tfrac {1}{6}}+{\tfrac {1}{21}}.}{\tfrac {1}{2}}+{\tfrac {1}{6}}+{\tfrac {1}{21}}. Any positive rational number can be written as a sum of unit fractions in infinitely many ways. Two ways to write {\displaystyle {\tfrac {13}{17}}}{\tfrac {13}{17}} are {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}+{\tfrac {1}{4}}+{\tfrac {1}{68}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}+{\tfrac {1}{4}}+{\tfrac {1}{68}} and {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{3}}+{\tfrac {1}{4}}+{\tfrac {1}{6}}+{\tfrac {1}{68}}}{\tfrac {1}{3}}+{\tfrac {1}{4}}+{\tfrac {1}{6}}+{\tfrac {1}{68}}.

'Complex' and 'compound' fractions
The notions ‘complex fraction’ and ‘compound fraction’ are both outdated[13] and nowadays used in no well-defined manner, partly even taken synonymously for each other[14] or for mixed numerals.[15] They lost their meaning as technical terms and the attributes "complex" and "compound" tend to be used in their every day meaning of "consisting of parts".

Complex fractions
Not to be confused with fractions involving complex numbers
In a complex fraction, either the numerator, or the denominator, or both, is a fraction or a mixed number,[16][17] corresponding to division of fractions. For example, {\displaystyle {\frac {\tfrac {1}{2}}{\tfrac {1}{3}}}}{\frac {\tfrac {1}{2}}{\tfrac {1}{3}}} and {\displaystyle {\frac {12{\tfrac {3}{4}}}{26}}}{\frac {12{\tfrac {3}{4}}}{26}} are complex fractions. To reduce a complex fraction to a simple fraction, treat the longest fraction line as representing division. For example:

{\displaystyle {\frac {\tfrac {1}{2}}{\tfrac {1}{3}}}={\tfrac {1}{2}}\times {\tfrac {3}{1}}={\tfrac {3}{2}}}{\displaystyle {\frac {\tfrac {1}{2}}{\tfrac {1}{3}}}={\tfrac {1}{2}}\times {\tfrac {3}{1}}={\tfrac {3}{2}}}
{\displaystyle {\frac {12{\tfrac {3}{4}}}{26}}=12{\tfrac {3}{4}}\cdot {\tfrac {1}{26}}={\tfrac {12\cdot 4+3}{4}}\cdot {\tfrac {1}{26}}={\tfrac {51}{4}}\cdot {\tfrac {1}{26}}={\tfrac {51}{104}}}{\frac {12{\tfrac {3}{4}}}{26}}=12{\tfrac {3}{4}}\cdot {\tfrac {1}{26}}={\tfrac {12\cdot 4+3}{4}}\cdot {\tfrac {1}{26}}={\tfrac {51}{4}}\cdot {\tfrac {1}{26}}={\tfrac {51}{104}}
{\displaystyle {\frac {\tfrac {3}{2}}{5}}={\tfrac {3}{2}}\times {\tfrac {1}{5}}={\tfrac {3}{10}}}{\frac {\tfrac {3}{2}}{5}}={\tfrac {3}{2}}\times {\tfrac {1}{5}}={\tfrac {3}{10}}
{\displaystyle {\frac {8}{\tfrac {1}{3}}}=8\times {\tfrac {3}{1}}=24.}{\displaystyle {\frac {8}{\tfrac {1}{3}}}=8\times {\tfrac {3}{1}}=24.}
If, in a complex fraction, there is no unique way to tell which fraction lines takes precedence, then this expression is improperly formed, because of ambiguity. So 5/10/20/40 is not a valid mathematical expression, because of multiple possible interpretations, e.g. as

{\displaystyle 5/(10/(20/40))={\frac {5}{10/{\tfrac {20}{40}}}}={\frac {1}{4}}\quad }{\displaystyle 5/(10/(20/40))={\frac {5}{10/{\tfrac {20}{40}}}}={\frac {1}{4}}\quad } or as {\displaystyle \quad (5/10)/(20/40)={\frac {\tfrac {5}{10}}{\tfrac {20}{40}}}=1}{\displaystyle \quad (5/10)/(20/40)={\frac {\tfrac {5}{10}}{\tfrac {20}{40}}}=1}
Compound fractions
A compound fraction is a fraction of a fraction, or any number of fractions connected with the word of,[16][17] corresponding to multiplication of fractions. To reduce a compound fraction to a simple fraction, just carry out the multiplication (see the section on multiplication). For example, {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}}{\tfrac {3}{4}} of {\displaystyle {\tfrac {5}{7}}}{\tfrac {5}{7}} is a compound fraction, corresponding to {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}\times {\tfrac {5}{7}}={\tfrac {15}{28}}}{\tfrac {3}{4}}\times {\tfrac {5}{7}}={\tfrac {15}{28}}. The terms compound fraction and complex fraction are closely related and sometimes one is used as a synonym for the other. (For example, the compound fraction {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}\times {\tfrac {5}{7}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}\times {\tfrac {5}{7}}} is equivalent to the complex fraction {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3/4}{7/5}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {3/4}{7/5}}}.)

Arithmetic with fractions
Like whole numbers, fractions obey the commutative, associative, and distributive laws, and the rule against division by zero.

Equivalent fractions
Multiplying the numerator and denominator of a fraction by the same (non-zero) number results in a fraction that is equivalent to the original fraction. This is true because for any non-zero number {\displaystyle n}n, the fraction {\displaystyle {\tfrac {n}{n}}=1}{\tfrac {n}{n}}=1. Therefore, multiplying by {\displaystyle {\tfrac {n}{n}}}{\tfrac {n}{n}}is equivalent to multiplying by one, and any number multiplied by one has the same value as the original number. By way of an example, start with the fraction {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}. When the numerator and denominator are both multiplied by 2, the result is {\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{4}}}{\tfrac {2}{4}}, which has the same value (0.5) as {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}. To picture this visually, imagine cutting a cake into four pieces; two of the pieces together ({\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{4}}}{\tfrac {2}{4}}) make up half the cake ({\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}).

Simplifying (reducing) fractions
Dividing the numerator and denominator of a fraction by the same non-zero number will also yield an equivalent fraction. If the numerator and the denominator of a fraction are both divisible by a number (called a factor) greater than 1, then the fraction can be reduced to an equal fraction with a smaller numerator and a smaller denominator. To do this, the greatest common factor is identified, and both the numerator and the denominator are divided by this factor. For example, if both the numerator and the denominator of the fraction {\displaystyle {\tfrac {a}{b}}}{\tfrac {a}{b}}are divisible by {\displaystyle c,}c, then they can be written as {\displaystyle a=cd}{\displaystyle a=cd} and {\displaystyle b=ce,}{\displaystyle b=ce,} so the fraction becomes {\displaystyle {\tfrac {cd}{ce}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {cd}{ce}}}, which can be reduced by dividing both the numerator and denominator by {\displaystyle c}c to give the reduced fraction {\displaystyle {\tfrac {d}{e}}.}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {d}{e}}.}

If the numerator and the denominator do not share any factor greater than 1, then the fraction is said to be irreducible, in lowest terms, or in simplest terms. For example, {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{9}}}{\tfrac {3}{9}}is not in lowest terms because both 3 and 9 can be exactly divided by 3. In contrast, {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{8}}}{\tfrac {3}{8}} is in lowest terms—the only positive integer that goes into both 3 and 8 evenly is 1.

Using these rules, we can show that {\displaystyle {\tfrac {5}{10}}}{\tfrac {5}{10}}= {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}= {\displaystyle {\tfrac {10}{20}}}{\tfrac {10}{20}}= {\displaystyle {\tfrac {50}{100}}}{\tfrac {50}{100}}.

As another example, since the greatest common divisor of 63 and 462 is 21, the fraction {\displaystyle {\tfrac {63}{462}}}{\tfrac {63}{462}}can be reduced to lowest terms by dividing the numerator and denominator by 21:

{\displaystyle {\tfrac {63}{462}}={\tfrac {63\div 21}{462\div 21}}={\tfrac {3}{22}}}{\tfrac {63}{462}}={\tfrac {63\div 21}{462\div 21}}={\tfrac {3}{22}}
The Euclidean algorithm gives a method for finding the greatest common divisor of any two positive integers.

Comparing fractions
Comparing fractions with the same positive denominator yields the same result as comparing the numerators:

{\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}>{\tfrac {2}{4}}}{\tfrac {3}{4}}>{\tfrac {2}{4}} because 3 > 2, and the equal denominators {\displaystyle 4}4 are positive.
If the equal denominators are negative, then the opposite result of comparing the numerators holds for the fractions:

{\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{-4}}<{\tfrac {2}{-4}}{\text{ because }}{\tfrac {a}{-b}}={\tfrac {-a}{b}}{\text{ and }}-3<-2.}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{-4}}<{\tfrac {2}{-4}}{\text{ because }}{\tfrac {a}{-b}}={\tfrac {-a}{b}}{\text{ and }}-3<-2.}
If two positive fractions have the same numerator, then the fraction with the smaller denominator is the larger number. When a whole is divided into equal pieces, if fewer equal pieces are needed to make up the whole, then each piece must be larger. When two positive fractions have the same numerator, they represent the same number of parts, but in the fraction with the smaller denominator, the parts are larger.

One way to compare fractions with different numerators and denominators is to find a common denominator. To compare {\displaystyle {\tfrac {a}{b}}}{\tfrac {a}{b}} and {\displaystyle {\tfrac {c}{d}}}{\tfrac {c}{d}}, these are converted to {\displaystyle {\tfrac {a\cdot d}{b\cdot d}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {a\cdot d}{b\cdot d}}} and {\displaystyle {\tfrac {b\cdot c}{b\cdot d}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {b\cdot c}{b\cdot d}}} (where the dot signifies multiplication and is an alternative symbol to ×). Then bd is a common denominator and the numerators ad and bc can be compared. It is not necessary to determine the value of the common denominator to compare fractions – one can just compare ad and bc, without evaluating bd, e.g., comparing {\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{3}}}{\tfrac {2}{3}} ? {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}} gives {\displaystyle {\tfrac {4}{6}}>{\tfrac {3}{6}}}{\tfrac {4}{6}}>{\tfrac {3}{6}}.

For the more laborious question {\displaystyle {\tfrac {5}{18}}}{\tfrac {5}{18}} ? {\displaystyle {\tfrac {4}{17}},}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {4}{17}},} multiply top and bottom of each fraction by the denominator of the other fraction, to get a common denominator, yielding {\displaystyle {\tfrac {5\times 17}{18\times 17}}}{\tfrac {5\times 17}{18\times 17}} ? {\displaystyle {\tfrac {18\times 4}{18\times 17}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {18\times 4}{18\times 17}}}. It is not necessary to calculate {\displaystyle 18\times 17}{\displaystyle 18\times 17} – only the numerators need to be compared. Since 5×17 (= 85) is greater than 4×18 (= 72), the result of comparing is {\displaystyle {\tfrac {5}{18}}>{\tfrac {4}{17}}}{\tfrac {5}{18}}>{\tfrac {4}{17}}.

Because every negative number, including negative fractions, is less than zero, and every positive number, including positive fractions, is greater than zero, it follows that any negative fraction is less than any positive fraction. This allows, together with the above rules, to compare all possible fractions.

Addition
The first rule of addition is that only like quantities can be added; for example, various quantities of quarters. Unlike quantities, such as adding thirds to quarters, must first be converted to like quantities as described below: Imagine a pocket containing two quarters, and another pocket containing three quarters; in total, there are five quarters. Since four quarters is equivalent to one (dollar), this can be represented as follows:

{\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{4}}+{\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {5}{4}}=1{\tfrac {1}{4}}}{\tfrac {2}{4}}+{\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {5}{4}}=1{\tfrac {1}{4}}.

If {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}} of a cake is to be added to {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{4}}}{\tfrac {1}{4}} of a cake, the pieces need to be converted into comparable quantities, such as cake-eighths or cake-quarters.
Adding unlike quantities
To add fractions containing unlike quantities (e.g. quarters and thirds), it is necessary to convert all amounts to like quantities. It is easy to work out the chosen type of fraction to convert to; simply multiply together the two denominators (bottom number) of each fraction. In case of an integer number apply the invisible denominator {\displaystyle 1.}1.

For adding quarters to thirds, both types of fraction are converted to twelfths, thus:

{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{4}}\ +{\frac {1}{3}}={\frac {1\times 3}{4\times 3}}\ +{\frac {1\times 4}{3\times 4}}={\frac {3}{12}}\ +{\frac {4}{12}}={\frac {7}{12}}.}{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{4}}\ +{\frac {1}{3}}={\frac {1\times 3}{4\times 3}}\ +{\frac {1\times 4}{3\times 4}}={\frac {3}{12}}\ +{\frac {4}{12}}={\frac {7}{12}}.}
Consider adding the following two quantities:

{\displaystyle {\frac {3}{5}}+{\frac {2}{3}}}{\displaystyle {\frac {3}{5}}+{\frac {2}{3}}}
First, convert {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{5}}}{\tfrac {3}{5}} into fifteenths by multiplying both the numerator and denominator by three: {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{5}}\times {\tfrac {3}{3}}={\tfrac {9}{15}}}{\tfrac {3}{5}}\times {\tfrac {3}{3}}={\tfrac {9}{15}}. Since {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{3}}}{\tfrac {3}{3}} equals 1, multiplication by {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{3}}}{\tfrac {3}{3}} does not change the value of the fraction.

Second, convert {\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{3}}}{\tfrac {2}{3}} into fifteenths by multiplying both the numerator and denominator by five: {\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{3}}\times {\tfrac {5}{5}}={\tfrac {10}{15}}}{\tfrac {2}{3}}\times {\tfrac {5}{5}}={\tfrac {10}{15}}.

Now it can be seen that:

{\displaystyle {\frac {3}{5}}+{\frac {2}{3}}}{\displaystyle {\frac {3}{5}}+{\frac {2}{3}}}
is equivalent to:

{\displaystyle {\frac {9}{15}}+{\frac {10}{15}}={\frac {19}{15}}=1{\frac {4}{15}}}{\displaystyle {\frac {9}{15}}+{\frac {10}{15}}={\frac {19}{15}}=1{\frac {4}{15}}}
This method can be expressed algebraically:

{\displaystyle {\frac {a}{b}}+{\frac {c}{d}}={\frac {ad+cb}{bd}}}{\displaystyle {\frac {a}{b}}+{\frac {c}{d}}={\frac {ad+cb}{bd}}}
This algebraic method always works, thereby guaranteeing that the sum of simple fractions is always again a simple fraction. However, if the single denominators contain a common factor, a smaller denominator than the product of these can be used. For example, when adding {\displaystyle {\tfrac {3}{4}}}{\tfrac {3}{4}} and {\displaystyle {\tfrac {5}{6}}}{\displaystyle {\tfrac {5}{6}}} the single denominators have a common factor {\displaystyle 2,}{\displaystyle 2,} and therefore, instead of the denominator 24 (4 × 6), the halved denominator 12 may be used, not only reducing the denominator in the result, but also the factors in the numerator.

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\frac {3}{4}}+{\frac {5}{6}}&={\frac {3\cdot 6}{4\cdot 6}}+{\frac {4\cdot 5}{4\cdot 6}}={\frac {18}{24}}+{\frac {20}{24}}&={\frac {19}{12}}\\&={\frac {3\cdot 3}{4\cdot 3}}+{\frac {2\cdot 5}{2\cdot 6}}={\frac {9}{12}}+{\frac {10}{12}}&={\frac {19}{12}}\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\frac {3}{4}}+{\frac {5}{6}}&={\frac {3\cdot 6}{4\cdot 6}}+{\frac {4\cdot 5}{4\cdot 6}}={\frac {18}{24}}+{\frac {20}{24}}&={\frac {19}{12}}\\&={\frac {3\cdot 3}{4\cdot 3}}+{\frac {2\cdot 5}{2\cdot 6}}={\frac {9}{12}}+{\frac {10}{12}}&={\frac {19}{12}}\end{aligned}}}
The smallest possible denominator is given by the least common multiple of the single denominators, which results from dividing the rote multiple by all common factors of the single denominators. This is called the least common denominator.

Subtraction
The process for subtracting fractions is, in essence, the same as that of adding them: find a common denominator, and change each fraction to an equivalent fraction with the chosen common denominator. The resulting fraction will have that denominator, and its numerator will be the result of subtracting the numerators of the original fractions. For instance,

{\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{3}}-{\tfrac {1}{2}}={\tfrac {4}{6}}-{\tfrac {3}{6}}={\tfrac {1}{6}}}{\tfrac {2}{3}}-{\tfrac {1}{2}}={\tfrac {4}{6}}-{\tfrac {3}{6}}={\tfrac {1}{6}}
Multiplication
Multiplying a fraction by another fraction
To multiply fractions, multiply the numerators and multiply the denominators. Thus:

{\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{3}}\times {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {6}{12}}}{\tfrac {2}{3}}\times {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {6}{12}}
To explain the process, consider one third of one quarter. Using the example of a cake, if three small slices of equal size make up a quarter, and four quarters make up a whole, twelve of these small, equal slices make up a whole. Therefore, a third of a quarter is a twelfth. Now consider the numerators. The first fraction, two thirds, is twice as large as one third. Since one third of a quarter is one twelfth, two thirds of a quarter is two twelfth. The second fraction, three quarters, is three times as large as one quarter, so two thirds of three quarters is three times as large as two thirds of one quarter. Thus two thirds times three quarters is six twelfths.

A short cut for multiplying fractions is called "cancellation". Effectively the answer is reduced to lowest terms during multiplication. For example:

{\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{3}}\times {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {{\cancel {2}}^{~1}}{{\cancel {3}}^{~1}}}\times {\tfrac {{\cancel {3}}^{~1}}{{\cancel {4}}^{~2}}}={\tfrac {1}{1}}\times {\tfrac {1}{2}}={\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {2}{3}}\times {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {{\cancel {2}}^{~1}}{{\cancel {3}}^{~1}}}\times {\tfrac {{\cancel {3}}^{~1}}{{\cancel {4}}^{~2}}}={\tfrac {1}{1}}\times {\tfrac {1}{2}}={\tfrac {1}{2}}
A two is a common factor in both the numerator of the left fraction and the denominator of the right and is divided out of both. Three is a common factor of the left denominator and right numerator and is divided out of both.

Multiplying a fraction by a whole number
Since a whole number can be rewritten as itself divided by 1, normal fraction multiplication rules can still apply.

{\displaystyle 6\times {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {6}{1}}\times {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {18}{4}}}6\times {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {6}{1}}\times {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {18}{4}}
This method works because the fraction 6/1 means six equal parts, each one of which is a whole.

Multiplying mixed numbers
When multiplying mixed numbers, it is considered preferable[citation needed] to convert the mixed number into an improper fraction. For example:

{\displaystyle 3\times 2{\tfrac {3}{4}}=3\times \left({\tfrac {8}{4}}+{\tfrac {3}{4}}\right)=3\times {\tfrac {11}{4}}={\tfrac {33}{4}}=8{\tfrac {1}{4}}}3\times 2{\tfrac {3}{4}}=3\times \left({\tfrac {8}{4}}+{\tfrac {3}{4}}\right)=3\times {\tfrac {11}{4}}={\tfrac {33}{4}}=8{\tfrac {1}{4}}
In other words, {\displaystyle 2{\tfrac {3}{4}}}2{\tfrac {3}{4}} is the same as {\displaystyle {\tfrac {8}{4}}+{\tfrac {3}{4}}}{\tfrac {8}{4}}+{\tfrac {3}{4}}, making 11 quarters in total (because 2 cakes, each split into quarters makes 8 quarters total) and 33 quarters is {\displaystyle 8{\tfrac {1}{4}}}8{\tfrac {1}{4}}, since 8 cakes, each made of quarters, is 32 quarters in total.

Division
To divide a fraction by a whole number, you may either divide the numerator by the number, if it goes evenly into the numerator, or multiply the denominator by the number. For example, {\displaystyle {\tfrac {10}{3}}\div 5}{\tfrac {10}{3}}\div 5 equals {\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{3}}}{\tfrac {2}{3}} and also equals {\displaystyle {\tfrac {10}{3\cdot 5}}={\tfrac {10}{15}}}{\tfrac {10}{3\cdot 5}}={\tfrac {10}{15}}, which reduces to {\displaystyle {\tfrac {2}{3}}}{\tfrac {2}{3}}. To divide a number by a fraction, multiply that number by the reciprocal of that fraction. Thus, {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}\div {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {1}{2}}\times {\tfrac {4}{3}}={\tfrac {1\cdot 4}{2\cdot 3}}={\tfrac {2}{3}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}\div {\tfrac {3}{4}}={\tfrac {1}{2}}\times {\tfrac {4}{3}}={\tfrac {1\cdot 4}{2\cdot 3}}={\tfrac {2}{3}}.

Converting between decimals and fractions
To change a common fraction to a decimal, do a long division of the decimal representations of the numerator by the denominator (this is idiomatically also phrased as "divide the denominator into the numerator"), and round the answer to the desired accuracy. For example, to change ¼ to a decimal, divide {\displaystyle 1.00}1.00 by {\displaystyle 4}4 ("{\displaystyle 4}4 into {\displaystyle 1.00}1.00"), to obtain {\displaystyle 0.25}{\displaystyle 0.25}. To change ⅓ to a decimal, divide {\displaystyle 1.000...}{\displaystyle 1.000...} by {\displaystyle 3}3 ("{\displaystyle 3}3 into {\displaystyle 1.0000...}{\displaystyle 1.0000...}"), and stop when the desired accuracy is obtained, e.g., at {\displaystyle 4}4 decimals with {\displaystyle 0.3333}{\displaystyle 0.3333}. The fraction ¼ can be written exactly with two decimal digits, while the fraction ⅓ cannot be written exactly as a decimal with a finite number of digits. To change a decimal to a fraction, write in the denominator a {\displaystyle 1}1 followed by as many zeroes as there are digits to the right of the decimal point, and write in the numerator all the digits of the original decimal, just omitting the decimal point. Thus {\displaystyle 12.3456={\tfrac {123456}{10000}}.}{\displaystyle 12.3456={\tfrac {123456}{10000}}.}

Converting repeating decimals to fractions
See also: Repeating decimal
Decimal numbers, while arguably more useful to work with when performing calculations, sometimes lack the precision that common fractions have. Sometimes an infinite repeating decimal is required to reach the same precision. Thus, it is often useful to convert repeating decimals into fractions.

The preferred[by whom?] way to indicate a repeating decimal is to place a bar (known as a vinculum) over the digits that repeat, for example 0.789 = 0.789789789... For repeating patterns where the repeating pattern begins immediately after the decimal point, a simple division of the pattern by the same number of nines as numbers it has will suffice. For example:

0.5 = 5/9
0.62 = 62/99
0.264 = 264/999
0.6291 = 6291/9999
In case leading zeros precede the pattern, the nines are suffixed by the same number of trailing zeros:

0.05 = 5/90
0.000392 = 392/999000
0.0012 = 12/9900
In case a non-repeating set of decimals precede the pattern (such as 0.1523987), we can write it as the sum of the non-repeating and repeating parts, respectively:

0.1523 + 0.0000987
Then, convert both parts to fractions, and add them using the methods described above:

1523 / 10000 + 987 / 9990000 = 1522464 / 9990000
Alternatively, algebra can be used, such as below:

Let x = the repeating decimal:
x = 0.1523987
Multiply both sides by the power of 10 just great enough (in this case 104) to move the decimal point just before the repeating part of the decimal number:
10,000x = 1,523.987
Multiply both sides by the power of 10 (in this case 103) that is the same as the number of places that repeat:
10,000,000x = 1,523,987.987
Subtract the two equations from each other (if a = b and c = d, then a − c = b − d):
10,000,000x − 10,000x = 1,523,987.987 − 1,523.987
Continue the subtraction operation to clear the repeating decimal:
9,990,000x = 1,523,987 − 1,523
 = 1,522,464
Divide both sides by 9,990,000 to represent x as a fraction
x = 1522464 / 9990000
Fractions in abstract mathematics
In addition to being of great practical importance, fractions are also studied by mathematicians, who check that the rules for fractions given above are consistent and reliable. Mathematicians define a fraction as an ordered pair {\displaystyle (a,b)}(a,b)of integers {\displaystyle a}aand {\displaystyle b\neq 0,}{\displaystyle b\neq 0,} for which the operations addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division are defined as follows:[18]

{\displaystyle (a,b)+(c,d)=(ad+bc,bd)\,}(a,b)+(c,d)=(ad+bc,bd)\,
{\displaystyle (a,b)-(c,d)=(ad-bc,bd)\,}(a,b)-(c,d)=(ad-bc,bd)\,
{\displaystyle (a,b)\cdot (c,d)=(ac,bd)}(a,b)\cdot (c,d)=(ac,bd)
{\displaystyle (a,b)\div (c,d)=(ad,bc)\quad ({\text{with, additionally, }}c\neq 0)}{\displaystyle (a,b)\div (c,d)=(ad,bc)\quad ({\text{with, additionally, }}c\neq 0)}
These definitions agree in every case with the definitions given above; only the notation is different. Alternatively, instead of defining subtraction and division as operations, the "inverse" fractions with respect to addition and multiplication might be defined as:

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}-(a,b)&=(-a,b)&&{\text{additive inverse fractions,}}\\&&&{\text{with }}(0,b){\text{ as additive unities, and}}\\(a,b)^{-1}&=(b,a)&&{\text{multiplicative inverse fractions, for }}a\neq 0,\\&&&{\text{with }}(b,b){\text{ as multiplicative unities}}.\end{aligned}}}{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}-(a,b)&=(-a,b)&&{\text{additive inverse fractions,}}\\&&&{\text{with }}(0,b){\text{ as additive unities, and}}\\(a,b)^{-1}&=(b,a)&&{\text{multiplicative inverse fractions, for }}a\neq 0,\\&&&{\text{with }}(b,b){\text{ as multiplicative unities}}.\end{aligned}}}
Furthermore, the relation, specified as

{\displaystyle (a,b)\sim (c,d)\quad \iff \quad ad=bc,}{\displaystyle (a,b)\sim (c,d)\quad \iff \quad ad=bc,}
is an equivalence relation of fractions. Each fraction from one equivalence class may be considered as a representative for the whole class, and each whole class may be considered as one abstract fraction. This equivalence is preserved by the above defined operations, i.e., the results of operating on fractions are independent of the selection of representatives from their equivalence class. Formally, for addition of fractions

{\displaystyle (a,b)\sim (a',b')\quad }{\displaystyle (a,b)\sim (a',b')\quad } and {\displaystyle \quad (c,d)\sim (c',d')\quad }{\displaystyle \quad (c,d)\sim (c',d')\quad } imply
{\displaystyle ((a,b)+(c,d))\sim ((a',b')+(c',d'))}{\displaystyle ((a,b)+(c,d))\sim ((a',b')+(c',d'))}
and similarly for the other operations.

In the case of fractions of integers, the fractions 
a
/
b
 with a anda coprime and b > 0 are often taken as uniquely determined representatives for their equivalent fractions, which are considered to be the same rational number. This way the fractions of integers make up the field of the rational numbers.

More generally, a and b may be elements of any integral domain R, in which case a fraction is an element of the field of fractions of R. For example, polynomials in one indeterminate, with coefficients from some integral domain D, are themselves an integral domain, call it P. So for a and b elements of P, the generated field of fractions is the field of rational fractions (also known as the field of rational functions).

Algebraic fractions
Main article: Algebraic fraction
An algebraic fraction is the indicated quotient of two algebraic expressions. As with fractions of integers, the denominator of an algebraic fraction cannot be zero. Two examples of algebraic fractions are {\displaystyle {\frac {3x}{x^{2}+2x-3}}}{\frac {3x}{x^{2}+2x-3}} and {\displaystyle {\frac {\sqrt {x+2}}{x^{2}-3}}}{\frac {\sqrt {x+2}}{x^{2}-3}}. Algebraic fractions are subject to the same field properties as arithmetic fractions.

If the numerator and the denominator are polynomials, as in {\displaystyle {\frac {3x}{x^{2}+2x-3}}}{\frac {3x}{x^{2}+2x-3}}, the algebraic fraction is called a rational fraction (or rational expression). An irrational fraction is one that is not rational, as, for example, one that contains the variable under a fractional exponent or root, as in {\displaystyle {\frac {\sqrt {x+2}}{x^{2}-3}}}{\frac {\sqrt {x+2}}{x^{2}-3}}.

The terminology used to describe algebraic fractions is similar to that used for ordinary fractions. For example, an algebraic fraction is in lowest terms if the only factors common to the numerator and the denominator are 1 and −1. An algebraic fraction whose numerator or denominator, or both, contain a fraction, such as {\displaystyle {\frac {1+{\tfrac {1}{x}}}{1-{\tfrac {1}{x}}}}}{\frac {1+{\tfrac {1}{x}}}{1-{\tfrac {1}{x}}}}, is called a complex fraction.

The field of rational numbers is the field of fractions of the integers, while the integers themselves are not a field but rather an integral domain. Similarly, the rational fractions with coefficients in a field form the field of fractions of polynomials with coefficient in that field. Considering the rational fractions with real coefficients, radical expressions representing numbers, such as {\displaystyle \textstyle {\sqrt {2}}/2,}{\displaystyle \textstyle {\sqrt {2}}/2,} are also rational fractions, as are a transcendental numbers such as {\textstyle \pi /2,}{\textstyle \pi /2,} since all of {\displaystyle {\sqrt {2}},\pi ,}{\displaystyle {\sqrt {2}},\pi ,} and {\displaystyle 2}2 are real numbers, and thus considered as coefficients. These same numbers, however, are not rational fractions with integer coefficients.

The term partial fraction is used when decomposing rational fractions into sums of simpler fractions. For example, the rational fraction {\displaystyle {\frac {2x}{x^{2}-1}}}{\displaystyle {\frac {2x}{x^{2}-1}}} can be decomposed as the sum of two fractions: {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{x+1}}+{\frac {1}{x-1}}.}{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{x+1}}+{\frac {1}{x-1}}.} This is useful for the computation of antiderivatives of rational functions.

Radical expressions
Main articles: Nth root and Rationalization (mathematics)
A fraction may also contain radicals in the numerator and/or the denominator. If the denominator contains radicals, it can be helpful to rationalize it (compare Simplified form of a radical expression), especially if further operations, such as adding or comparing that fraction to another, are to be carried out. It is also more convenient if division is to be done manually. When the denominator is a monomial square root, it can be rationalized by multiplying both the top and the bottom of the fraction by the denominator:

{\displaystyle {\frac {3}{\sqrt {7}}}={\frac {3}{\sqrt {7}}}\cdot {\frac {\sqrt {7}}{\sqrt {7}}}={\frac {3{\sqrt {7}}}{7}}}{\frac {3}{\sqrt {7}}}={\frac {3}{\sqrt {7}}}\cdot {\frac {\sqrt {7}}{\sqrt {7}}}={\frac {3{\sqrt {7}}}{7}}
The process of rationalization of binomial denominators involves multiplying the top and the bottom of a fraction by the conjugate of the denominator so that the denominator becomes a rational number. For example:

{\displaystyle {\frac {3}{3-2{\sqrt {5}}}}={\frac {3}{3-2{\sqrt {5}}}}\cdot {\frac {3+2{\sqrt {5}}}{3+2{\sqrt {5}}}}={\frac {3(3+2{\sqrt {5}})}{{3}^{2}-(2{\sqrt {5}})^{2}}}={\frac {3(3+2{\sqrt {5}})}{9-20}}=-{\frac {9+6{\sqrt {5}}}{11}}}{\displaystyle {\frac {3}{3-2{\sqrt {5}}}}={\frac {3}{3-2{\sqrt {5}}}}\cdot {\frac {3+2{\sqrt {5}}}{3+2{\sqrt {5}}}}={\frac {3(3+2{\sqrt {5}})}{{3}^{2}-(2{\sqrt {5}})^{2}}}={\frac {3(3+2{\sqrt {5}})}{9-20}}=-{\frac {9+6{\sqrt {5}}}{11}}}
{\displaystyle {\frac {3}{3+2{\sqrt {5}}}}={\frac {3}{3+2{\sqrt {5}}}}\cdot {\frac {3-2{\sqrt {5}}}{3-2{\sqrt {5}}}}={\frac {3(3-2{\sqrt {5}})}{{3}^{2}-(2{\sqrt {5}})^{2}}}={\frac {3(3-2{\sqrt {5}})}{9-20}}=-{\frac {9-6{\sqrt {5}}}{11}}}{\displaystyle {\frac {3}{3+2{\sqrt {5}}}}={\frac {3}{3+2{\sqrt {5}}}}\cdot {\frac {3-2{\sqrt {5}}}{3-2{\sqrt {5}}}}={\frac {3(3-2{\sqrt {5}})}{{3}^{2}-(2{\sqrt {5}})^{2}}}={\frac {3(3-2{\sqrt {5}})}{9-20}}=-{\frac {9-6{\sqrt {5}}}{11}}}
Even if this process results in the numerator being irrational, like in the examples above, the process may still facilitate subsequent manipulations by reducing the number of irrationals one has to work with in the denominator.

Typographical variations
See also: Slash § Encoding
In computer displays and typography, simple fractions are sometimes printed as a single character, e.g. ½ (one half). See the article on Number Forms for information on doing this in Unicode.

Scientific publishing distinguishes four ways to set fractions, together with guidelines on use:[19]

special fractions: fractions that are presented as a single character with a slanted bar, with roughly the same height and width as other characters in the text. Generally used for simple fractions, such as: ½, ⅓, ⅔, ¼, and ¾. Since the numerals are smaller, legibility can be an issue, especially for small-sized fonts. These are not used in modern mathematical notation, but in other contexts.
case fractions: similar to special fractions, these are rendered as a single typographical character, but with a horizontal bar, thus making them upright. An example would be {\displaystyle {\tfrac {1}{2}}}{\tfrac {1}{2}}, but rendered with the same height as other characters. Some sources include all rendering of fractions as case fractions if they take only one typographical space, regardless of the direction of the bar.[20]
shilling or solidus fractions: 1/2, so called because this notation was used for pre-decimal British currency (£sd), as in 2/6 for a half crown, meaning two shillings and six pence. While the notation "two shillings and six pence" did not represent a fraction, the forward slash is now used in fractions, especially for fractions inline with prose (rather than displayed), to avoid uneven lines. It is also used for fractions within fractions (complex fractions) or within exponents to increase legibility. Fractions written this way, also known as piece fractions,[21] are written all on one typographical line, but take 3 or more typographical spaces.
built-up fractions: {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{2}}}{\frac {1}{2}}. This notation uses two or more lines of ordinary text, and results in a variation in spacing between lines when included within other text. While large and legible, these can be disruptive, particularly for simple fractions or within complex fractions.
History
The earliest fractions were reciprocals of integers: ancient symbols representing one part of two, one part of three, one part of four, and so on.[22] The Egyptians used Egyptian fractions c. 1000 bc. About 4000 years ago, Egyptians divided with fractions using slightly different methods. They used least common multiples with unit fractions. Their methods gave the same answer as modern methods.[23] The Egyptians also had a different notation for dyadic fractions in the Akhmim Wooden Tablet and several Rhind Mathematical Papyrus problems.

The Greeks used unit fractions and (later) continued fractions. Followers of the Greek philosopher Pythagoras (c. 530 bc) discovered that the square root of two cannot be expressed as a fraction of integers. (This is commonly though probably erroneously ascribed to Hippasus of Metapontum, who is said to have been executed for revealing this fact.) In 150 bc Jain mathematicians in India wrote the "Sthananga Sutra", which contains work on the theory of numbers, arithmetical operations, and operations with fractions.

A modern expression of fractions known as bhinnarasi seems to have originated in India in the work of Aryabhatta (c. ad 500),[citation needed] Brahmagupta (c. 628), and Bhaskara (c. 1150).[24] Their works form fractions by placing the numerators (Sanskrit: amsa) over the denominators (cheda), but without a bar between them.[24] In Sanskrit literature, fractions were always expressed as an addition to or subtraction from an integer.[citation needed] The integer was written on one line and the fraction in its two parts on the next line. If the fraction was marked by a small circle ⟨०⟩ or cross ⟨+⟩, it is subtracted from the integer; if no such sign appears, it is understood to be added. For example, Bhaskara I writes[25]

६        १        २
१        १        १०
४        ५        ९
which is the equivalent of

6        1        2
1        1        −1
4        5        9
and would be written in modern notation as 6
1
/
4
, 1
1
/
5
, and 2 − 
1
/
9
 (i.e., 1
8
/
9
).

The horizontal fraction bar is first attested in the work of Al-Hassār (fl. 1200),[24] a Muslim mathematician from Fez, Morocco, who specialized in Islamic inheritance jurisprudence. In his discussion he writes, "... for example, if you are told to write three-fifths and a third of a fifth, write thus, {\displaystyle {\frac {3\quad 1}{5\quad 3}}}{\frac {3\quad 1}{5\quad 3}}."[26] The same fractional notation—with the fraction given before the integer[24]—appears soon after in the work of Leonardo Fibonacci in the 13th century.[27]

In discussing the origins of decimal fractions, Dirk Jan Struik states:[28]

"The introduction of decimal fractions as a common computational practice can be dated back to the Flemish pamphlet De Thiende, published at Leyden in 1585, together with a French translation, La Disme, by the Flemish mathematician Simon Stevin (1548–1620), then settled in the Northern Netherlands. It is true that decimal fractions were used by the Chinese many centuries before Stevin and that the Persian astronomer Al-Kāshī used both decimal and sexagesimal fractions with great ease in his Key to arithmetic (Samarkand, early fifteenth century)."[29]

While the Persian mathematician Jamshīd al-Kāshī claimed to have discovered decimal fractions himself in the 15th century, J. Lennart Berggren notes that he was mistaken, as decimal fractions were first used five centuries before him by the Baghdadi mathematician Abu'l-Hasan al-Uqlidisi as early as the 10th century.[30][n 2]

In formal education
Pedagogical tools
In primary schools, fractions have been demonstrated through Cuisenaire rods, Fraction Bars, fraction strips, fraction circles, paper (for folding or cutting), pattern blocks, pie-shaped pieces, plastic rectangles, grid paper, dot paper, geoboards, counters and computer software.

Documents for teachers
Several states in the United States have adopted learning trajectories from the Common Core State Standards Initiative's guidelines for mathematics education. Aside from sequencing the learning of fractions and operations with fractions, the document provides the following definition of a fraction: "A number expressible in the form ​{\displaystyle a}a⁄{\displaystyle b}b where {\displaystyle a}a is a whole number and {\displaystyle b}b is a positive whole number. (The word fraction in these standards always refers to a non-negative number.)"[32] The document itself also refers to negative fractions.100 or one hundred (Roman numeral: C)[1] is the natural number following 99 and preceding 101.

In medieval contexts, it may be described as the short hundred or five score in order to differentiate the English and Germanic use of "hundred" to describe the long hundred of six score or 120.

100 is the square of 10 (in scientific notation it is written as 102). The standard SI prefix for a hundred is "hecto-".

100 is the basis of percentages (per cent meaning "per hundred" in Latin), with 100% being a full amount.

100 is the sum of the first nine prime numbers, as well as the sum of some pairs of prime numbers e.g., 3 + 97, 11 + 89, 17 + 83, 29 + 71, 41 + 59, and 47 + 53.

100 is the sum of the cubes of the first four integers (100 = 13 + 23 + 33 + 43). This is related by Nicomachus's theorem to the fact that 100 also equals the square of the sum of the first four integers: 100 = 102 = (1 + 2 + 3 + 4)2.[2]

26 + 62 = 100, thus 100 is a Leyland number.[3]

100 is an 18-gonal number.[4] It is divisible by 25, the number of primes below it. It can not be expressed as the difference between any integer and the total of coprimes below it, making it a noncototient. It can be expressed as a sum of some of its divisors, making it a semiperfect number.

100 is a Harshad number in base 10,[5] and also in base 4, and in that base it is a self-descriptive number.

There are exactly 100 prime numbers whose digits are in strictly ascending order (e.g. 239, 2357 etc.).

100 is the smallest number whose common logarithm is a prime number (i.e. 10n for which n is prime).An integer (from the Latin integer meaning "whole")[a] is colloquially defined as a number that can be written without a fractional component. For example, 21, 4, 0, and −2048 are integers, while 9.75, 5+
1
/
2
, and √2 are not.

The set of integers consists of zero (0), the positive natural numbers (1, 2, 3, ...), also called whole numbers or counting numbers,[2][3] and their additive inverses (the negative integers, i.e., −1, −2, −3, ...). The set of integers is often denoted by a boldface letter ‘Z’ ("Z") or blackboard bold {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} }\mathbb {Z}  (Unicode U+2124 ℤ) standing for the German word Zahlen ([ˈtsaːlən], "numbers").[4][5][6][7]

ℤ is a subset of the set of all rational numbers ℚ, which in turn is a subset of the real numbers ℝ. Like the natural numbers, ℤ is countably infinite.

The integers form the smallest group and the smallest ring containing the natural numbers. In algebraic number theory, the integers are sometimes qualified as rational integers to distinguish them from the more general algebraic integers. In fact, (rational) integers are algebraic integers that are also rational numbers.

Like the natural numbers, ℤ is closed under the operations of addition and multiplication, that is, the sum and product of any two integers is an integer. However, with the inclusion of the negative natural numbers (and importantly, 0), ℤ, unlike the natural numbers, is also closed under subtraction.[11]

The integers form a unital ring which is the most basic one, in the following sense: for any unital ring, there is a unique ring homomorphism from the integers into this ring. This universal property, namely to be an initial object in the category of rings, characterizes the ring ℤ.

ℤ is not closed under division, since the quotient of two integers (e.g., 1 divided by 2) need not be an integer. Although the natural numbers are closed under exponentiation, the integers are not (since the result can be a fraction when the exponent is negative).

In the language of abstract algebra, the first five properties listed above for addition say that ℤ, under addition, is an abelian group. It is also a cyclic group, since every non-zero integer can be written as a finite sum 1 + 1 + … + 1 or (−1) + (−1) + … + (−1). In fact, ℤ under addition is the only infinite cyclic group—in the sense that any infinite cyclic group is isomorphic to ℤ.

The first four properties listed above for multiplication say that ℤ under multiplication is a commutative monoid. However, not every integer has a multiplicative inverse (as is the case of the number 2), which means that ℤ under multiplication is not a group.

All the rules from the above property table (except for the last), when taken together, say that ℤ together with addition and multiplication is a commutative ring with unity. It is the prototype of all objects of such algebraic structure. Only those equalities of expressions are true in ℤ for all values of variables, which are true in any unital commutative ring. Certain non-zero integers map to zero in certain rings.

The lack of zero divisors in the integers (last property in the table) means that the commutative ring ℤ is an integral domain.

The lack of multiplicative inverses, which is equivalent to the fact that ℤ is not closed under division, means that ℤ is not a field. The smallest field containing the integers as a subring is the field of rational numbers. The process of constructing the rationals from the integers can be mimicked to form the field of fractions of any integral domain. And back, starting from an algebraic number field (an extension of rational numbers), its ring of integers can be extracted, which includes ℤ as its subring.

Although ordinary division is not defined on ℤ, the division "with remainder" is defined on them. It is called Euclidean division, and possesses the following important property: given two integers a and b with b ≠ 0, there exist unique integers q and r such that a = q × b + r and 0 ≤ r < | b |, where | b | denotes the absolute value of b.[12] The integer q is called the quotient and r is called the remainder of the division of a by b. The Euclidean algorithm for computing greatest common divisors works by a sequence of Euclidean divisions.

Again, in the language of abstract algebra, the above says that ℤ is a Euclidean domain. This implies that ℤ is a principal ideal domain, and any positive integer can be written as the products of primes in an essentially unique way.[13] This is the fundamental theorem of arithmetic.

ℤ is a totally ordered set without upper or lower bound. The ordering of ℤ is given by: :... −3 < −2 < −1 < 0 < 1 < 2 < 3 < ... An integer is positive if it is greater than zero, and negative if it is less than zero. Zero is defined as neither negative nor positive.

The ordering of integers is compatible with the algebraic operations in the following way:

if a < b and c < d, then a + c < b + d
if a < b and 0 < c, then ac < bc.
Thus it follows that ℤ together with the above ordering is an ordered ring.

The integers are the only nontrivial totally ordered abelian group whose positive elements are well-ordered.[14] This is equivalent to the statement that any Noetherian valuation ring is either a field—or a discrete valuation ring.

In elementary school teaching, integers are often intuitively defined as the (positive) natural numbers, zero, and the negations of the natural numbers. However, this style of definition leads to many different cases (each arithmetic operation needs to be defined on each combination of types of integer) and makes it tedious to prove that integers obey the various laws of arithmetic.[15] Therefore, in modern set-theoretic mathematics, a more abstract construction[16] allowing one to define arithmetical operations without any case distinction is often used instead.[17] The integers can thus be formally constructed as the equivalence classes of ordered pairs of natural numbers (a,b).[18]

The intuition is that (a,b) stands for the result of subtracting b from a.[18] To confirm our expectation that 1 − 2 and 4 − 5 denote the same number, we define an equivalence relation ~ on these pairs with the following rule:

{\displaystyle (a,b)\sim (c,d)}{\displaystyle (a,b)\sim (c,d)}
precisely when

{\displaystyle a+d=b+c.}{\displaystyle a+d=b+c.}
Addition and multiplication of integers can be defined in terms of the equivalent operations on the natural numbers;[18] by using [(a,b)] to denote the equivalence class having (a,b) as a member, one has:

{\displaystyle [(a,b)]+[(c,d)]:=[(a+c,b+d)].}{\displaystyle [(a,b)]+[(c,d)]:=[(a+c,b+d)].}
{\displaystyle [(a,b)]\cdot [(c,d)]:=[(ac+bd,ad+bc)].}{\displaystyle [(a,b)]\cdot [(c,d)]:=[(ac+bd,ad+bc)].}
The negation (or additive inverse) of an integer is obtained by reversing the order of the pair:

{\displaystyle -[(a,b)]:=[(b,a)].}{\displaystyle -[(a,b)]:=[(b,a)].}
Hence subtraction can be defined as the addition of the additive inverse:

{\displaystyle [(a,b)]-[(c,d)]:=[(a+d,b+c)].}{\displaystyle [(a,b)]-[(c,d)]:=[(a+d,b+c)].}
The standard ordering on the integers is given by:

{\displaystyle [(a,b)]<[(c,d)]}{\displaystyle [(a,b)]<[(c,d)]} if and only if {\displaystyle a+d<b+c.}{\displaystyle a+d<b+c.}
It is easily verified that these definitions are independent of the choice of representatives of the equivalence classes.

Every equivalence class has a unique member that is of the form (n,0) or (0,n) (or both at once). The natural number n is identified with the class [(n,0)] (i.e., the natural numbers are embedded into the integers by map sending n to [(n,0)]), and the class [(0,n)] is denoted −n (this covers all remaining classes, and gives the class [(0,0)] a second time since −0 = 0.

Thus, [(a,b)] is denoted by

{\displaystyle {\begin{cases}a-b,&{\mbox{if }}a\geq b\\-(b-a),&{\mbox{if }}a<b.\end{cases}}}{\begin{cases}a-b,&{\mbox{if }}a\geq b\\-(b-a),&{\mbox{if }}a<b.\end{cases}}
If the natural numbers are identified with the corresponding integers (using the embedding mentioned above), this convention creates no ambiguity.

This notation recovers the familiar representation of the integers as {…, −2, −1, 0, 1, 2, …}.

Some examples are:

{\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}0&=[(0,0)]&=[(1,1)]&=\cdots &&=[(k,k)]\\1&=[(1,0)]&=[(2,1)]&=\cdots &&=[(k+1,k)]\\-1&=[(0,1)]&=[(1,2)]&=\cdots &&=[(k,k+1)]\\2&=[(2,0)]&=[(3,1)]&=\cdots &&=[(k+2,k)]\\-2&=[(0,2)]&=[(1,3)]&=\cdots &&=[(k,k+2)].\end{aligned}}}{\begin{aligned}0&=[(0,0)]&=[(1,1)]&=\cdots &&=[(k,k)]\\1&=[(1,0)]&=[(2,1)]&=\cdots &&=[(k+1,k)]\\-1&=[(0,1)]&=[(1,2)]&=\cdots &&=[(k,k+1)]\\2&=[(2,0)]&=[(3,1)]&=\cdots &&=[(k+2,k)]\\-2&=[(0,2)]&=[(1,3)]&=\cdots &&=[(k,k+2)].\end{aligned}}
In theoretical computer science, other approaches for the construction of integers are used by automated theorem provers and term rewrite engines. Integers are represented as algebraic terms built using a few basic operations (e.g., zero, succ, pred) and, possibly, using natural numbers, which are assumed to be already constructed (using, say, the Peano approach).

There exist at least ten such constructions of signed integers.[19] These constructions differ in several ways: the number of basic operations used for the construction, the number (usually, between 0 and 2) and the types of arguments accepted by these operations; the presence or absence of natural numbers as arguments of some of these operations, and the fact that these operations are free constructors or not, i.e., that the same integer can be represented using only one or many algebraic terms.

The technique for the construction of integers presented above in this section corresponds to the particular case where there is a single basic operation pair{\displaystyle (x,y)}(x,y) that takes as arguments two natural numbers {\displaystyle x}x and {\displaystyle y}y, and returns an integer (equal to {\displaystyle x-y}x-y). This operation is not free since the integer 0 can be written pair(0,0), or pair(1,1), or pair(2,2), etc. This technique of construction is used by the proof assistant Isabelle; however, many other tools use alternative construction techniques, notable those based upon free constructors, which are simpler and can be implemented more efficiently in computers.

An integer is often a primitive data type in computer languages. However, integer data types can only represent a subset of all integers, since practical computers are of finite capacity. Also, in the common two's complement representation, the inherent definition of sign distinguishes between "negative" and "non-negative" rather than "negative, positive, and 0". (It is, however, certainly possible for a computer to determine whether an integer value is truly positive.) Fixed length integer approximation data types (or subsets) are denoted int or Integer in several programming languages (such as Algol68, C, Java, Delphi, etc.).

Variable-length representations of integers, such as bignums, can store any integer that fits in the computer's memory. Other integer data types are implemented with a fixed size, usually a number of bits which is a power of 2 (4, 8, 16, etc.) or a memorable number of decimal digits (e.g., 9 or 10).

Mathematics includes the study of such topics as quantity (number theory), structure (algebra), space (geometry), and change (mathematical analysis). It has no generally accepted definition. Mathematicians seek and use patterns to formulate new conjectures; they resolve the truth or falsity of such by mathematical proof. When mathematical structures are good models of real phenomena, mathematical reasoning can be used to provide insight or predictions about nature. Through the use of abstraction and logic, mathematics developed from counting, calculation, measurement, and the systematic study of the shapes and motions of physical objects. Practical mathematics has been a human activity from as far back as written records exist. The research required to solve mathematical problems can take years or even centuries of sustained inquiry. Rigorous arguments first appeared in Greek mathematics, most notably in Euclid's Elements. Since the pioneering work of Giuseppe Peano (1858–1932), David Hilbert (1862–1943), and others on axiomatic systems in the late 19th century, it has become customary to view mathematical research as establishing truth by rigorous deduction from appropriately chosen axioms and definitions. Mathematics developed at a relatively slow pace until the Renaissance, when mathematical innovations interacting with new scientific discoveries led to a rapid increase in the rate of mathematical discovery that has continued to the present day. Mathematics is essential in many fields, including natural science, engineering, medicine, finance, and the social sciences. Applied mathematics has led to entirely new mathematical disciplines, such as statistics and game theory. Mathematicians engage in pure mathematics (mathematics for its own sake) without having any application in mind, but practical applications for what began as pure mathematics are often discovered later. The history of mathematics can be seen as an ever-increasing series of abstractions. The first abstraction, which is shared by many animals, was probably that of numbers: the realization that a collection of two apples and a collection of two oranges (for example) have something in common, namely quantity of their members. As evidenced by tallies found on bone, in addition to recognizing how to count physical objects, prehistoric peoples may have also recognized how to count abstract quantities, like time—days, seasons, or years. Evidence for more complex mathematics does not appear until around 3000 BC, when the Babylonians and Egyptians began using arithmetic, algebra and geometry for taxation and other financial calculations, for building and construction, and for astronomy. The most ancient mathematical texts from Mesopotamia and Egypt are from 2000–1800 BC. Many early texts mention Pythagorean triples and so, by inference, the Pythagorean theorem seems to be the most ancient and widespread mathematical development after basic arithmetic and geometry. It is in Babylonian mathematics that elementary arithmetic (addition, subtraction, multiplication and division) first appear in the archaeological record. The Babylonians also possessed a place-value system, and used a sexagesimal numeral system which is still in use today for measuring angles and time. Beginning in the 6th century BC with the Pythagoreans, the Ancient Greeks began a systematic study of mathematics as a subject in its own right with Greek mathematics. Around 300 BC, Euclid introduced the axiomatic method still used in mathematics today, consisting of definition, axiom, theorem, and proof. His textbook Elements is widely considered the most successful and influential textbook of all time. The greatest mathematician of antiquity is often held to be Archimedes (c. 287–212 BC) of Syracuse. He developed formulas for calculating the surface area and volume of solids of revolution and used the method of exhaustion to calculate the area under the arc of a parabola with the summation of an infinite series, in a manner not too dissimilar from modern calculus. Other notable achievements of Greek mathematics are conic sections (Apollonius of Perga, 3rd century BC), trigonometry (Hipparchus of Nicaea (2nd century BC), and the beginnings of algebra (Diophantus, 3rd century AD). The Hindu–Arabic numeral system and the rules for the use of its operations, in use throughout the world today, evolved over the course of the first millennium AD in India and were transmitted to the Western world via Islamic mathematics. Other notable developments of Indian mathematics include the modern definition and approximation of sine and cosine, and an early form of infinite series. During the Golden Age of Islam, especially during the 9th and 10th centuries, mathematics saw many important innovations building on Greek mathematics. The most notable achievement of Islamic mathematics was the development of algebra. Other notable achievements of the Islamic period are advances in spherical trigonometry and the addition of the decimal point to the Arabic numeral system. Many notable mathematicians from this period were Persian, such as Al-Khwarismi, Omar Khayyam and Sharaf al-Dīn al-Ṭūsī. During the early modern period, mathematics began to develop at an accelerating pace in Western Europe. The development of calculus by Newton and Leibniz in the 17th century revolutionized mathematics. Leonhard Euler was the most notable mathematician of the 18th century, contributing numerous theorems and discoveries. Perhaps the foremost mathematician of the 19th century was the German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss, who made numerous contributions to fields such as algebra, analysis, differential geometry, matrix theory, number theory, and statistics. In the early 20th century, Kurt Gödel transformed mathematics by publishing his incompleteness theorems, which show in part that any consistent axiomatic system—if powerful enough to describe arithmetic—will contain true propositions that cannot be proved. Mathematics has since been greatly extended, and there has been a fruitful interaction between mathematics and science, to the benefit of both. Mathematical discoveries continue to be made today. According to Mikhail B. Sevryuk, in the January 2006 issue of the Bulletin of the American Mathematical Society, "The number of papers and books included in the Mathematical Reviews database since 1940 (the first year of operation of MR) is now more than 1.9 million, and more than 75 thousand items are added to the database each year. The overwhelming majority of works in this ocean contain new mathematical theorems and their proofs." Mathematics has no generally accepted definition. Aristotle defined mathematics as "the science of quantity" and this definition prevailed until the 18th century. However, Aristotle also noted a focus on quantity alone may not distinguish mathematics from sciences like physics; in his view, abstraction and studying quantity as a property "separable in thought" from real instances set mathematics apart. In the 19th century, when the study of mathematics increased in rigor and began to address abstract topics such as group theory and projective geometry, which have no clear-cut relation to quantity and measurement, mathematicians and philosophers began to propose a variety of new definitions. A great many professional mathematicians take no interest in a definition of mathematics, or consider it undefinable. There is not even consensus on whether mathematics is an art or a science. Some just say, "Mathematics is what mathematicians do." Three leading types of definition of mathematics today are called logicist, intuitionist, and formalist, each reflecting a different philosophical school of thought. All have severe flaws, none has widespread acceptance, and no reconciliation seems possible. An early definition of mathematics in terms of logic was that of Benjamin Peirce (1870): "the science that draws necessary conclusions." In the Principia Mathematica, Bertrand Russell and Alfred North Whitehead advanced the philosophical program known as logicism, and attempted to prove that all mathematical concepts, statements, and principles can be defined and proved entirely in terms of symbolic logic. A logicist definition of mathematics is Russell's (1903) "All Mathematics is Symbolic Logic." Intuitionist definitions, developing from the philosophy of mathematician L. E. J. Brouwer, identify mathematics with certain mental phenomena. An example of an intuitionist definition is "Mathematics is the mental activity which consists in carrying out constructs one after the other." A peculiarity of intuitionism is that it rejects some mathematical ideas considered valid according to other definitions. In particular, while other philosophies of mathematics allow objects that can be proved to exist even though they cannot be constructed, intuitionism allows only mathematical objects that one can actually construct. Intuitionists also reject the law of excluded middle—a stance which forces them to reject proof by contradiction as a viable proof method as well. Formalist definitions identify mathematics with its symbols and the rules for operating on them. Haskell Curry defined mathematics simply as "the science of formal systems". A formal system is a set of symbols, or tokens, and some rules on how the tokens are to be combined into formulas. In formal systems, the word axiom has a special meaning different from the ordinary meaning of "a self-evident truth", and is used to refer to a combination of tokens that is included in a given formal system without needing to be derived using the rules of the system. The German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss referred to mathematics as "the Queen of the Sciences". More recently, Marcus du Sautoy has called mathematics "the Queen of Science ... the main driving force behind scientific discovery". The philosopher Karl Popper observed that "most mathematical theories are, like those of physics and biology, hypothetico-deductive: pure mathematics therefore turns out to be much closer to the natural sciences whose hypotheses are conjectures, than it seemed even recently." Popper also noted that "I shall certainly admit a system as empirical or scientific only if it is capable of being tested by experience." Several authors consider that mathematics is not a science because it does not rely on empirical evidence. Mathematics shares much in common with many fields in the physical sciences, notably the exploration of the logical consequences of assumptions. Intuition and experimentation also play a role in the formulation of conjectures in both mathematics and the (other) sciences. Experimental mathematics continues to grow in importance within mathematics, and computation and simulation are playing an increasing role in both the sciences and mathematics. The opinions of mathematicians on this matter are varied. Many mathematicians feel that to call their area a science is to downplay the importance of its aesthetic side, and its history in the traditional seven liberal arts; others feel that to ignore its connection to the sciences is to turn a blind eye to the fact that the interface between mathematics and its applications in science and engineering has driven much development in mathematics. One way this difference of viewpoint plays out is in the philosophical debate as to whether mathematics is created (as in art) or discovered (as in science). In practice, mathematicians are typically grouped with scientists at the gross level but separated at finer levels. This is one of many issues considered in the philosophy of mathematics. Mathematics arises from many different kinds of problems. At first these were found in commerce, land measurement, architecture and later astronomy; today, all sciences suggest problems studied by mathematicians, and many problems arise within mathematics itself. For example, the physicist Richard Feynman invented the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics using a combination of mathematical reasoning and physical insight, and today's string theory, a still-developing scientific theory which attempts to unify the four fundamental forces of nature, continues to inspire new mathematics. Some mathematics is relevant only in the area that inspired it, and is applied to solve further problems in that area. But often mathematics inspired by one area proves useful in many areas, and joins the general stock of mathematical concepts. A distinction is often made between pure mathematics and applied mathematics. However pure mathematics topics often turn out to have applications, e.g. number theory in cryptography. This remarkable fact, that even the "purest" mathematics often turns out to have practical applications, is what Eugene Wigner has called "the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics". As in most areas of study, the explosion of knowledge in the scientific age has led to specialization: there are now hundreds of specialized areas in mathematics and the latest Mathematics Subject Classification runs to 46 pages. Several areas of applied mathematics have merged with related traditions outside of mathematics and become disciplines in their own right, including statistics, operations research, and computer science. For those who are mathematically inclined, there is often a definite aesthetic aspect to much of mathematics. Many mathematicians talk about the elegance of mathematics, its intrinsic aesthetics and inner beauty. Simplicity and generality are valued. There is beauty in a simple and elegant proof, such as Euclid's proof that there are infinitely many prime numbers, and in an elegant numerical method that speeds calculation, such as the fast Fourier transform. G. H. Hardy in A Mathematician's Apology expressed the belief that these aesthetic considerations are, in themselves, sufficient to justify the study of pure mathematics. He identified criteria such as significance, unexpectedness, inevitability, and economy as factors that contribute to a mathematical aesthetic. Mathematical research often seeks critical features of a mathematical object. A theorem expressed as a characterization of the object by these features is the prize. Examples of particularly succinct and revelatory mathematical arguments has been published in Proofs from THE BOOK. The popularity of recreational mathematics is another sign of the pleasure many find in solving mathematical questions. And at the other social extreme, philosophers continue to find problems in philosophy of mathematics, such as the nature of mathematical proof. Most of the mathematical notation in use today was not invented until the 16th century. Before that, mathematics was written out in words, limiting mathematical discovery. Euler (1707–1783) was responsible for many of the notations in use today. Modern notation makes mathematics much easier for the professional, but beginners often find it daunting. According to Barbara Oakley, this can be attributed to the fact that mathematical ideas are both more abstract and more encrypted than those of natural language. Unlike natural language, where people can often equate a word (such as cow) with the physical object it corresponds to, mathematical symbols are abstract, lacking any physical analog. Mathematical symbols are also more highly encrypted than regular words, meaning a single symbol can encode a number of different operations or ideas. Mathematical language can be difficult to understand for beginners because even common terms, such as or and only, have a more precise meaning than they have in everyday speech, and other terms such as open and field refer to specific mathematical ideas, not covered by their laymen's meanings. Mathematical language also includes many technical terms such as homeomorphism and integrable that have no meaning outside of mathematics. Additionally, shorthand phrases such as iff for "if and only if" belong to mathematical jargon. There is a reason for special notation and technical vocabulary: mathematics requires more precision than everyday speech. Mathematicians refer to this precision of language and logic as "rigor"Mathematical proof is fundamentally a matter of rigor. Mathematicians want their theorems to follow from axioms by means of systematic reasoning. This is to avoid mistaken "theorems", based on fallible intuitions, of which many instances have occurred in the history of the subject. The level of rigor expected in mathematics has varied over time: the Greeks expected detailed arguments, but at the time of Isaac Newton the methods employed were less rigorous. Problems inherent in the definitions used by Newton would lead to a resurgence of careful analysis and formal proof in the 19th century. Misunderstanding the rigor is a cause for some of the common misconceptions of mathematics. Today, mathematicians continue to argue among themselves about computer-assisted proofs. Since large computations are hard to verify, such proofs may be erroneous if the used computer program is erroneous. On the other hand, proof assistants allow verifying all details that cannot be given in a hand-written proof, and provide certainty of the correctness of long proofs such as that of the Feit–Thompson theorem. Axioms in traditional thought were "self-evident truths", but that conception is problematic. At a formal level, an axiom is just a string of symbols, which has an intrinsic meaning only in the context of all derivable formulas of an axiomatic system. It was the goal of Hilbert's program to put all of mathematics on a firm axiomatic basis, but according to Gödel's incompleteness theorem every (sufficiently powerful) axiomatic system has undecidable formulas; and so a final axiomatization of mathematics is impossible. Nonetheless mathematics is often imagined to be (as far as its formal content) nothing but set theory in some axiomatization, in the sense that every mathematical statement or proof could be cast into formulas within set theory. Mathematics can, broadly speaking, be subdivided into the study of quantity, structure, space, and change (i.e. arithmetic, algebra, geometry, and analysis). In addition to these main concerns, there are also subdivisions dedicated to exploring links from the heart of mathematics to other fields: to logic, to set theory (foundations), to the empirical mathematics of the various sciences (applied mathematics), and more recently to the rigorous study of uncertainty. While some areas might seem unrelated, the Langlands program has found connections between areas previously thought unconnected, such as Galois groups, Riemann surfaces and number theory. Discrete mathematics conventionally groups together the fields of mathematics which study mathematical structures that are fundamentally discrete rather than continuous. In order to clarify the foundations of mathematics, the fields of mathematical logic and set theory were developed. Mathematical logic includes the mathematical study of logic and the applications of formal logic to other areas of mathematics; set theory is the branch of mathematics that studies sets or collections of objects. The phrase "crisis of foundations" describes the search for a rigorous foundation for mathematics that took place from approximately 1900 to 1930. Some disagreement about the foundations of mathematics continues to the present day. The crisis of foundations was stimulated by a number of controversies at the time, including the controversy over Cantor's set theory and the Brouwer–Hilbert controversy. Mathematical logic is concerned with setting mathematics within a rigorous axiomatic framework, and studying the implications of such a framework. As such, it is home to Gödel's incompleteness theorems which (informally) imply that any effective formal system that contains basic arithmetic, if sound (meaning that all theorems that can be proved are true), is necessarily incomplete (meaning that there are true theorems which cannot be proved in that system). Whatever finite collection of number-theoretical axioms is taken as a foundation, Gödel showed how to construct a formal statement that is a true number-theoretical fact, but which does not follow from those axioms. Therefore, no formal system is a complete axiomatization of full number theory. Modern logic is divided into recursion theory, model theory, and proof theory, and is closely linked to theoretical computer science, as well as to category theory. In the context of recursion theory, the impossibility of a full axiomatization of number theory can also be formally demonstrated as a consequence of the MRDP theorem. Theoretical computer science includes computability theory, computational complexity theory, and information theory. Computability theory examines the limitations of various theoretical models of the computer, including the most well-known model—the Turing machine. Complexity theory is the study of tractability by computer; some problems, although theoretically solvable by computer, are so expensive in terms of time or space that solving them is likely to remain practically unfeasible, even with the rapid advancement of computer hardware. A famous problem is the "P = NP?" problem, one of the Millennium Prize Problems. Finally, information theory is concerned with the amount of data that can be stored on a given medium, and hence deals with concepts such as compression and entropy. The study of quantity starts with numbers, first the familiar natural numbers and integers ("whole numbers") and arithmetical operations on them, which are characterized in arithmetic. The deeper properties of integers are studied in number theory, from which come such popular results as Fermat's Last Theorem. The twin prime conjecture and Goldbach's conjecture are two unsolved problems in number theory. As the number system is further developed, the integers are recognized as a subset of the rational numbers ("fractions"). These, in turn, are contained within the real numbers, which are used to represent continuous quantities. Real numbers are generalized to complex numbers. These are the first steps of a hierarchy of numbers that goes on to include quaternions and octonions. Consideration of the natural numbers also leads to the transfinite numbers, which formalize the concept of "infinity". According to the fundamental theorem of algebra all solutions of equations in one unknown with complex coefficients are complex numbers, regardless of degree. Another area of study is the size of sets, which is described with the cardinal numbers. These include the aleph numbers, which allow meaningful comparison of the size of infinitely large sets. Many mathematical objects, such as sets of numbers and functions, exhibit internal structure as a consequence of operations or relations that are defined on the set. Mathematics then studies properties of those sets that can be expressed in terms of that structure; for instance number theory studies properties of the set of integers that can be expressed in terms of arithmetic operations. Moreover, it frequently happens that different such structured sets (or structures) exhibit similar properties, which makes it possible, by a further step of abstraction, to state axioms for a class of structures, and then study at once the whole class of structures satisfying these axioms. Thus one can study groups, rings, fields and other abstract systems; together such studies (for structures defined by algebraic operations) constitute the domain of abstract algebra. By its great generality, abstract algebra can often be applied to seemingly unrelated problems; for instance a number of ancient problems concerning compass and straightedge constructions were finally solved using Galois theory, which involves field theory and group theory. Another example of an algebraic theory is linear algebra, which is the general study of vector spaces, whose elements called vectors have both quantity and direction, and can be used to model (relations between) points in space. This is one example of the phenomenon that the originally unrelated areas of geometry and algebra have very strong interactions in modern mathematics. Combinatorics studies ways of enumerating the number of objects that fit a given structure. The study of space originates with geometry—in particular, Euclidean geometry, which combines space and numbers, and encompasses the well-known Pythagorean theorem. Trigonometry is the branch of mathematics that deals with relationships between the sides and the angles of triangles and with the trigonometric functions. The modern study of space generalizes these ideas to include higher-dimensional geometry, non-Euclidean geometries (which play a central role in general relativity) and topology. Quantity and space both play a role in analytic geometry, differential geometry, and algebraic geometry. Convex and discrete geometry were developed to solve problems in number theory and functional analysis but now are pursued with an eye on applications in optimization and computer science. Within differential geometry are the concepts of fiber bundles and calculus on manifolds, in particular, vector and tensor calculus. Within algebraic geometry is the description of geometric objects as solution sets of polynomial equations, combining the concepts of quantity and space, and also the study of topological groups, which combine structure and space. Lie groups are used to study space, structure, and change. Topology in all its many ramifications may have been the greatest growth area in 20th-century mathematics; it includes point-set topology, set-theoretic topology, algebraic topology and differential topology. In particular, instances of modern-day topology are metrizability theory, axiomatic set theory, homotopy theory, and Morse theory. Topology also includes the now solved Poincaré conjecture, and the still unsolved areas of the Hodge conjecture. Other results in geometry and topology, including the four color theorem and Kepler conjecture, have been proven only with the help of computers. Understanding and describing change is a common theme in the natural sciences, and calculus was developed as a tool to investigate it. Functions arise here, as a central concept describing a changing quantity. The rigorous study of real numbers and functions of a real variable is known as real analysis, with complex analysis the equivalent field for the complex numbers. Functional analysis focuses attention on (typically infinite-dimensional) spaces of functions. One of many applications of functional analysis is quantum mechanics. Many problems lead naturally to relationships between a quantity and its rate of change, and these are studied as differential equations. Many phenomena in nature can be described by dynamical systems; chaos theory makes precise the ways in which many of these systems exhibit unpredictable yet still deterministic behavior. Applied mathematics concerns itself with mathematical methods that are typically used in science, engineering, business, and industry. Thus, "applied mathematics" is a mathematical science with specialized knowledge. The term applied mathematics also describes the professional specialty in which mathematicians work on practical problems; as a profession focused on practical problems, applied mathematics focuses on the "formulation, study, and use of mathematical models" in science, engineering, and other areas of mathematical practice. In the past, practical applications have motivated the development of mathematical theories, which then became the subject of study in pure mathematics, where mathematics is developed primarily for its own sake. Thus, the activity of applied mathematics is vitally connected with research in pure mathematics. Applied mathematics has significant overlap with the discipline of statistics, whose theory is formulated mathematically, especially with probability theory. Statisticians (working as part of a research project) "create data that makes sense" with random sampling and with randomized experiments; the design of a statistical sample or experiment specifies the analysis of the data (before the data be available). When reconsidering data from experiments and samples or when analyzing data from observational studies, statisticians "make sense of the data" using the art of modelling and the theory of inference—with model selection and estimation; the estimated models and consequential predictions should be tested on new data. Statistical theory studies decision problems such as minimizing the risk (expected loss) of a statistical action, such as using a procedure in, for example, parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, and selecting the best. In these traditional areas of mathematical statistics, a statistical-decision problem is formulated by minimizing an objective function, like expected loss or cost, under specific constraints: For example, designing a survey often involves minimizing the cost of estimating a population mean with a given level of confidence. Because of its use of optimization, the mathematical theory of statistics shares concerns with other decision sciences, such as operations research, control theory, and mathematical economics. Computational mathematics proposes and studies methods for solving mathematical problems that are typically too large for human numerical capacity. Numerical analysis studies methods for problems in analysis using functional analysis and approximation theory; numerical analysis includes the study of approximation and discretisation broadly with special concern for rounding errors. Numerical analysis and, more broadly, scientific computing also study non-analytic topics of mathematical science, especially algorithmic matrix and graph theory. Other areas of computational mathematics include computer algebra and symbolic computation. Arguably the most prestigious award in mathematics is the Fields Medal, established in 1936 and awarded every four years (except around World War II) to as many as four individuals. The Fields Medal is often considered a mathematical equivalent to the Nobel Prize. The Wolf Prize in Mathematics, instituted in 1978, recognizes lifetime achievement, and another major international award, the Abel Prize, was instituted in 2003. The Chern Medal was introduced in 2010 to recognize lifetime achievement. These accolades are awarded in recognition of a particular body of work, which may be innovational, or provide a solution to an outstanding problem in an established field. A famous list of 23 open problems, called "Hilbert's problems", was compiled in 1900 by German mathematician David Hilbert. This list achieved great celebrity among mathematicians, and at least nine of the problems have now been solved. A new list of seven important problems, titled the "Millennium Prize Problems", was published in 2000. Only one of them, the Riemann hypothesis, duplicates one of Hilbert's problems. A solution to any of these problems carries a 1 million dollar reward. Currently, only one of these problems, the Poincaré Conjecture, has been solved.1,000,000 (one million), or one thousand thousand, is the natural number following 999,999 and preceding 1,000,001. The word is derived from the early Italian millione (milione in modern Italian), from mille, "thousand", plus the augmentative suffix -one.[1] It is commonly abbreviated as m[2][3][4] (not to be confused with the metric prefix for 1×10−3) or M[5][6] and MM ("thousand thousands", from Latin "Mille"; not to be confused with the Roman numeral MM = 2,000), mm, or mn in financial contexts.[7][better source needed]

In scientific notation, it is written as 1×106 or 106.[8] Physical quantities can also be expressed using the SI prefix mega (M), when dealing with SI units; for example, 1 megawatt (1 MW) equals 1,000,000 watts.

The meaning of the word "million" is common to the short scale and long scale numbering systems, unlike the larger numbers, which have different names in the two systems.

The million is sometimes used in the English language as a metaphor for a very large number, as in "Not in a million years" and "You're one in a million", or a hyperbole, as in "I've walked a million miles" and "You've asked a million-dollar question".

Even though it is often stressed that counting to precisely a million would be an exceedingly tedious task due to the time and concentration required, there are many ways to bring the number "down to size" in approximate quantities, ignoring irregularities or packing effects.

Information: Not counting spaces, the text printed on 136 pages of an Encyclopædia Britannica, or 600 pages of pulp paperback fiction contains approximately one million characters.
Length: There are one million millimetres in a kilometre, and roughly a million sixteenths of an inch in a mile. A typical car tire might rotate a million times in a 1,900-kilometre (1,200 mi) trip, while the engine would do several times that number of revolutions.
Fingers: If the width of a human finger is 22 mm (7⁄8 in), then a million fingers lined up would cover a distance of 22 km (14 mi). If a person walks at a speed of 4 km/h (2.5 mph), it would take them approximately five and a half hours to reach the end of the fingers.
Area: A square a thousand objects or units on a side contains a million such objects or square units, so a million holes might be found in less than three square yards of window screen, or similarly, in about one half square foot (400–500 cm2) of bed sheet cloth. A city lot 70 by 100 feet is about a million square inches.
Volume: The cube root of one million is one hundred, so a million objects or cubic units is contained in a cube a hundred objects or linear units on a side. A million grains of table salt or granulated sugar occupies about 64 mL (2.3 imp fl oz; 2.2 US fl oz), the volume of a cube one hundred grains on a side. One million cubic inches would be the volume of a small room ​8 1⁄3 feet long by ​8 1⁄3 feet wide by ​8 1⁄3 feet high.
Mass: A million cubic millimetres (small droplets) of water would have a volume of one litre and a mass of one kilogram. A million millilitres or cubic centimetres (one cubic metre) of water has a mass of a million grams or one tonne.
Weight: A million 80-milligram (1.2 gr) honey bees would weigh the same as an 80 kg (180 lb) person.
Landscape: A pyramidal hill 600 feet (180 m) wide at the base and 100 feet (30 m) high would weigh about a million short tons.
Computer: A display resolution of 1,280 by 800 pixels contains 1,024,000 pixels.
Money: A USD bill of any denomination weighs 1 gram (0.035 oz). There are 454 grams in a pound. One million USD bills would weigh 1 megagram (1,000 kg; 2,200 lb) or 1 tonne (just over 1 short ton).
Time: A million seconds, 1 megasecond, is 11.57 days.
In Indian English and Pakistani English, it is also expressed as 10 lakh. Lakh is derived from lakṣa for 100,000 in Sanskrit.Multiplication (often denoted by the cross symbol ×, by the mid-line dot operator ⋅, by juxtaposition, or, on computers, by an asterisk *) is one of the four elementary mathematical operations of arithmetic, with the others being addition, subtraction and division. The result of a multiplication operation is called the product.

The multiplication of whole numbers may be thought as a repeated addition; that is, the multiplication of two numbers is equivalent to adding as many copies of one of them, the multiplicand, as the value of the other one, the multiplier. Both numbers can be called factors.

{\displaystyle a\times b=\underbrace {b+\cdots +b} _{a}}a\times b=\underbrace {b+\cdots +b} _{a}
For example, 4 multiplied by 3 (often written as {\displaystyle 3\times 4}3\times 4 and spoken as "3 times 4") can be calculated by adding 3 copies of 4 together:

{\displaystyle 3\times 4=4+4+4=12}3\times 4=4+4+4=12
Here 3 and 4 are the factors and 12 is the product.

One of the main properties of multiplication is the commutative property: adding 3 copies of 4 gives the same result as adding 4 copies of 3:

{\displaystyle 4\times 3=3+3+3+3=12}4\times 3=3+3+3+3=12
Thus the designation of multiplier and multiplicand does not affect the result of the multiplication.[1]

The multiplication of integers (including negative numbers), rational numbers (fractions) and real numbers is defined by a systematic generalization of this basic definition.

Multiplication can also be visualized as counting objects arranged in a rectangle (for whole numbers) or as finding the area of a rectangle whose sides have given lengths. The area of a rectangle does not depend on which side is measured first, which illustrates the commutative property. The product of two measurements is a new type of measurement, for instance multiplying the lengths of the two sides of a rectangle gives its area, this is the subject of dimensional analysis.

The inverse operation of multiplication is division. For example, since 4 multiplied by 3 equals 12, then 12 divided by 3 equals 4. Multiplication by 3, followed by division by 3, yields the original number (since the division of a number other than 0 by itself equals 1).

Multiplication is also defined for other types of numbers, such as complex numbers, and more abstract constructs, like matrices. For some of these more abstract constructs, the order in which the operands are multiplied together matters. A listing of the many different kinds of products that are used in mathematics is given in another page.

In arithmetic, multiplication is often written using the sign "×" between the terms; that is, in infix notation.[2] For example,

{\displaystyle 2\times 3=6}2\times 3=6 (verbally, "two times three equals six")
{\displaystyle 3\times 4=12}3\times 4=12
{\displaystyle 2\times 3\times 5=6\times 5=30}2\times 3\times 5=6\times 5=30
{\displaystyle 2\times 2\times 2\times 2\times 2=32}2\times 2\times 2\times 2\times 2=32
The sign is encoded in Unicode at U+00D7 × MULTIPLICATION SIGN (HTML &#215; · &times;).

There are other mathematical notations for multiplication:

Multiplication is also denoted by dot signs,[3] usually a middle-position dot (rarely period):
5 ⋅ 2 or 5 . 3
The middle dot notation, encoded in Unicode as U+22C5 ⋅ DOT OPERATOR, is standard in the United States and other countries where the period is used as a decimal point. When the dot operator character is not accessible, the interpunct (·) is used. In the United Kingdom and Ireland, the period/full stop is used for multiplication and the middle dot is used for the decimal point, although the use a period/full stop for decimal point is common. In other countries that use a comma as a decimal mark, either the period or a middle dot is used for multiplication.[citation needed]
In algebra, multiplication involving variables is often written as a juxtaposition (e.g., xy for x times y or 5x for five times x), also called implied multiplication.[4] The notation can also be used for quantities that are surrounded by parentheses (e.g., 5(2) or (5)(2) for five times two). This implicit usage of multiplication can cause ambiguity when the concatenated variables happen to match the name of another variable, when a variable name in front of a parenthesis can be confused with a function name, or in the correct determination of the order of operations.
In vector multiplication, there is a distinction between the cross and the dot symbols. The cross symbol generally denotes the taking a cross product of two vectors, yielding a vector as the result, while the dot denotes taking the dot product of two vectors, resulting in a scalar.
In computer programming, the asterisk (as in 5*2) is still the most common notation. This is due to the fact that most computers historically were limited to small character sets (such as ASCII and EBCDIC) that lacked a multiplication sign (such as ⋅ or ×), while the asterisk appeared on every keyboard. This usage originated in the FORTRAN programming language.

The numbers to be multiplied are generally called the "factors". The number to be multiplied is the "multiplicand", and the number by which it is multiplied is the "multiplier". Usually the multiplier is placed first and the multiplicand is placed second;[1] however sometimes the first factor is the multiplicand and the second the multiplier.[5] Also as the result of a multiplication does not depend on the order of the factors, the distinction between "multiplicand" and "multiplier" is useful only at a very elementary level and in some multiplication algorithms, such as the long multiplication. Therefore, in some sources, the term "multiplicand" is regarded as a synonym for "factor".[6] In algebra, a number that is the multiplier of a variable or expression (e.g., the 3 in 3xy2) is called a coefficient.

The result of a multiplication is called a product. A product of integers is a multiple of each factor. For example, 15 is the product of 3 and 5, and is both a multiple of 3 and a multiple of 5.

The common methods for multiplying numbers using pencil and paper require a multiplication table of memorized or consulted products of small numbers (typically any two numbers from 0 to 9), however one method, the peasant multiplication algorithm, does not.

Multiplying numbers to more than a couple of decimal places by hand is tedious and error prone. Common logarithms were invented to simplify such calculations, since adding logarithms is equivalent to multiplying. The slide rule allowed numbers to be quickly multiplied to about three places of accuracy. Beginning in the early 20th century, mechanical calculators, such as the Marchant, automated multiplication of up to 10 digit numbers. Modern electronic computers and calculators have greatly reduced the need for multiplication by hand.

Historical algorithms
Methods of multiplication were documented in the writings of ancient Egyptian, Greek, Indian and Chinese civilizations.

The Ishango bone, dated to about 18,000 to 20,000 BC, may hint at a knowledge of multiplication in the Upper Paleolithic era in Central Africa, but this is speculative.

Egyptians
Main article: Ancient Egyptian multiplication
The Egyptian method of multiplication of integers and fractions, documented in the Ahmes Papyrus, was by successive additions and doubling. For instance, to find the product of 13 and 21 one had to double 21 three times, obtaining 2 × 21 = 42, 4 × 21 = 2 × 42 = 84, 8 × 21 = 2 × 84 = 168. The full product could then be found by adding the appropriate terms found in the doubling sequence:

13 × 21 = (1 + 4 + 8) × 21 = (1 × 21) + (4 × 21) + (8 × 21) = 21 + 84 + 168 = 273.
Babylonians
The Babylonians used a sexagesimal positional number system, analogous to the modern day decimal system. Thus, Babylonian multiplication was very similar to modern decimal multiplication. Because of the relative difficulty of remembering 60 × 60 different products, Babylonian mathematicians employed multiplication tables. These tables consisted of a list of the first twenty multiples of a certain principal number n: n, 2n, ..., 20n; followed by the multiples of 10n: 30n 40n, and 50n. Then to compute any sexagesimal product, say 53n, one only needed to add 50n and 3n computed from the table.

Chinese
See also: Chinese multiplication table

38 × 76 = 2888
In the mathematical text Zhoubi Suanjing, dated prior to 300 BC, and the Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art, multiplication calculations were written out in words, although the early Chinese mathematicians employed Rod calculus involving place value addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. The Chinese were already using a decimal multiplication table by the end of the Warring States period.[7]

Modern methods

Product of 45 and 256. Note the order of the numerals in 45 is reversed down the left column. The carry step of the multiplication can be performed at the final stage of the calculation (in bold), returning the final product of 45 × 256 = 11520. This is a variant of Lattice multiplication.
The modern method of multiplication based on the Hindu–Arabic numeral system was first described by Brahmagupta. Brahmagupta gave rules for addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. Henry Burchard Fine, then professor of Mathematics at Princeton University, wrote the following:

The Indians are the inventors not only of the positional decimal system itself, but of most of the processes involved in elementary reckoning with the system. Addition and subtraction they performed quite as they are performed nowadays; multiplication they effected in many ways, ours among them, but division they did cumbrously.[8]
These place value decimal arithmetic algorithms were introduced to Arab countries by Al Khwarizmi in the early 9th century, and popularized in the Western world by Fibonacci in the 13th century.

Grid method
Grid method multiplication or the box method, is used in primary schools in England and Wales and in some areas of the United States to help teach an understanding of how multiple digit multiplication works. An example of multiplying 34 by 13 would be to lay the numbers out in a grid like:

 	30	4
10	300	40
3	90	12
and then add the entries.

Computer algorithms
Main article: Multiplication algorithm § Fast multiplication algorithms for large inputs
The classical method of multiplying two n-digit numbers requires n2 digit multiplications. Multiplication algorithms have been designed that reduce the computation time considerably when multiplying large numbers. Methods based on the discrete Fourier transform reduce the computational complexity to O(n log n log log n). Recently, the factor log log n has been replaced by a function that increases much slower although it is still not constant (as it can be hoped).[9]

In March 2019, David Harvey and Joris van der Hoeven submitted an article presenting an integer multiplication algorithm with a claimed complexity of {\displaystyle O(n\log n).}{\displaystyle O(n\log n).}[10] The algorithm, also based on the fast Fourier transform, is conjectured to be asymptotically optimal.[11] The algorithm is not considered practically useful, as its advantages only appear when multiplying extremely large numbers (having more than 2172912 bits).[12]

Products of measurements
Main article: Dimensional analysis
One can only meaningfully add or subtract quantities of the same type, but quantities of different types can be multiplied or divided without problem. For example, four bags with three marbles each can be thought of as:[1]

[4 bags] × [3 marbles per bag] = 12 marbles.
When two measurements are multiplied together the product is of a type depending on the types of the measurements. The general theory is given by dimensional analysis. This analysis is routinely applied in physics but has also found applications in finance.

A common example is multiplying speed by time gives distance, so

50 kilometers per hour × 3 hours = 150 kilometers.
In this case, the hour units cancel out and we are left with only kilometer units.

Other examples:

2.5 meters × 4.5 meters = 11.25 square meters
11 meters/seconds × 9 seconds = 99 meters
4.5 residents per house × 20 houses = 90 residents
Products of sequences
Capital pi notation
The product of a sequence of factors can be written with the product symbol, which derives from the capital letter Π (pi) in the Greek alphabet. Unicode position U+220F (∏) contains a glyph for denoting such a product, distinct from U+03A0 (Π), the letter. The meaning of this notation is given by:

{\displaystyle \prod _{i=1}^{4}i=1\cdot 2\cdot 3\cdot 4,}{\displaystyle \prod _{i=1}^{4}i=1\cdot 2\cdot 3\cdot 4,}
that is

{\displaystyle \prod _{i=1}^{4}i=24.}{\displaystyle \prod _{i=1}^{4}i=24.}
The subscript gives the symbol for a bound variable (i in this case), called the "index of multiplication" together with its lower bound (1), whereas the superscript (here 4) gives its upper bound. The lower and upper bound are expressions denoting integers. The factors of the product are obtained by taking the expression following the product operator, with successive integer values substituted for the index of multiplication, starting from the lower bound and incremented by 1 up to and including the upper bound. So, for example:

{\displaystyle \prod _{i=1}^{6}i=1\cdot 2\cdot 3\cdot 4\cdot 5\cdot 6=720}{\displaystyle \prod _{i=1}^{6}i=1\cdot 2\cdot 3\cdot 4\cdot 5\cdot 6=720}
More generally, the notation is defined as

{\displaystyle \prod _{i=m}^{n}x_{i}=x_{m}\cdot x_{m+1}\cdot x_{m+2}\cdot \,\,\cdots \,\,\cdot x_{n-1}\cdot x_{n},}{\displaystyle \prod _{i=m}^{n}x_{i}=x_{m}\cdot x_{m+1}\cdot x_{m+2}\cdot \,\,\cdots \,\,\cdot x_{n-1}\cdot x_{n},}
where m and n are integers or expressions that evaluate to integers. In case m = n, the value of the product is the same as that of the single factor xm. If m > n, the product is an empty product, whose value is 1, regardless of the expression for the factors.

Infinite products
Main article: Infinite product
One may also consider products of infinitely many terms; these are called infinite products. Notationally, we would replace n above by the lemniscate ∞. The product of such a series is defined as the limit of the product of the first n terms, as n grows without bound. That is, by definition,

{\displaystyle \prod _{i=m}^{\infty }x_{i}=\lim _{n\to \infty }\prod _{i=m}^{n}x_{i}.}{\displaystyle \prod _{i=m}^{\infty }x_{i}=\lim _{n\to \infty }\prod _{i=m}^{n}x_{i}.}
One can similarly replace m with negative infinity, and define:

{\displaystyle \prod _{i=-\infty }^{\infty }x_{i}=\left(\lim _{m\to -\infty }\prod _{i=m}^{0}x_{i}\right)\cdot \left(\lim _{n\to \infty }\prod _{i=1}^{n}x_{i}\right),}{\displaystyle \prod _{i=-\infty }^{\infty }x_{i}=\left(\lim _{m\to -\infty }\prod _{i=m}^{0}x_{i}\right)\cdot \left(\lim _{n\to \infty }\prod _{i=1}^{n}x_{i}\right),}
provided both limits exist.

Properties

Multiplication of numbers 0–10. Line labels = multiplicand. X axis = multiplier. Y axis = product.
Extension of this pattern into other quadrants gives the reason why a negative number times a negative number yields a positive number.
Note also how multiplication by zero causes a reduction in dimensionality, as does multiplication by a singular matrix where the determinant is 0. In this process, information is lost and cannot be regained.
For the real and complex numbers, which includes for example natural numbers, integers, and fractions, multiplication has certain properties:

Commutative property
The order in which two numbers are multiplied does not matter:
{\displaystyle x\cdot y=y\cdot x.}{\displaystyle x\cdot y=y\cdot x.}
Associative property
Expressions solely involving multiplication or addition are invariant with respect to order of operations:
{\displaystyle (x\cdot y)\cdot z=x\cdot (y\cdot z)}(x\cdot y)\cdot z=x\cdot (y\cdot z)
Distributive property
Holds with respect to multiplication over addition. This identity is of prime importance in simplifying algebraic expressions:
{\displaystyle x\cdot (y+z)=x\cdot y+x\cdot z}x\cdot (y+z)=x\cdot y+x\cdot z
Identity element
The multiplicative identity is 1; anything multiplied by 1 is itself. This feature of 1 is known as the identity property:
{\displaystyle x\cdot 1=x}x\cdot 1=x
Property of 0
Any number multiplied by 0 is 0. This is known as the zero property of multiplication:
{\displaystyle x\cdot 0=0}{\displaystyle x\cdot 0=0}
Negation
−1 times any number is equal to the additive inverse of that number.
{\displaystyle (-1)\cdot x=(-x)}(-1)\cdot x=(-x) where {\displaystyle (-x)+x=0}{\displaystyle (-x)+x=0}
–1 times –1 is 1.
{\displaystyle (-1)\cdot (-1)=1}(-1)\cdot (-1)=1
Inverse element
Every number x, except 0, has a multiplicative inverse, {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{x}}}{\frac {1}{x}}, such that {\displaystyle x\cdot \left({\frac {1}{x}}\right)=1}x\cdot \left({\frac {1}{x}}\right)=1.
Order preservation
Multiplication by a positive number preserves order:
For a > 0, if b > c then ab > ac.
Multiplication by a negative number reverses order:
For a < 0, if b > c then ab < ac.
The complex numbers do not have an ordering.
Other mathematical systems that include a multiplication operation may not have all these properties. For example, multiplication is not, in general, commutative for matrices and quaternions.

Axioms
Main article: Peano axioms
In the book Arithmetices principia, nova methodo exposita, Giuseppe Peano proposed axioms for arithmetic based on his axioms for natural numbers.[13] Peano arithmetic has two axioms for multiplication:

{\displaystyle x\times 0=0}x\times 0=0
{\displaystyle x\times S(y)=(x\times y)+x}x\times S(y)=(x\times y)+x
Here S(y) represents the successor of y, or the natural number that follows y. The various properties like associativity can be proved from these and the other axioms of Peano arithmetic including induction. For instance S(0), denoted by 1, is a multiplicative identity because

{\displaystyle x\times 1=x\times S(0)=(x\times 0)+x=0+x=x}{\displaystyle x\times 1=x\times S(0)=(x\times 0)+x=0+x=x}
The axioms for integers typically define them as equivalence classes of ordered pairs of natural numbers. The model is based on treating (x,y) as equivalent to x − y when x and y are treated as integers. Thus both (0,1) and (1,2) are equivalent to −1. The multiplication axiom for integers defined this way is

{\displaystyle (x_{p},\,x_{m})\times (y_{p},\,y_{m})=(x_{p}\times y_{p}+x_{m}\times y_{m},\;x_{p}\times y_{m}+x_{m}\times y_{p})}(x_{p},\,x_{m})\times (y_{p},\,y_{m})=(x_{p}\times y_{p}+x_{m}\times y_{m},\;x_{p}\times y_{m}+x_{m}\times y_{p})
The rule that −1 × −1 = 1 can then be deduced from

{\displaystyle (0,1)\times (0,1)=(0\times 0+1\times 1,\,0\times 1+1\times 0)=(1,0)}(0,1)\times (0,1)=(0\times 0+1\times 1,\,0\times 1+1\times 0)=(1,0)
Multiplication is extended in a similar way to rational numbers and then to real numbers.

Multiplication with set theory
The product of non-negative integers can be defined with set theory using cardinal numbers or the Peano axioms. See below how to extend this to multiplying arbitrary integers, and then arbitrary rational numbers. The product of real numbers is defined in terms of products of rational numbers, see construction of the real numbers.

Multiplication in group theory
There are many sets that, under the operation of multiplication, satisfy the axioms that define group structure. These axioms are closure, associativity, and the inclusion of an identity element and inverses.

A simple example is the set of non-zero rational numbers. Here we have identity 1, as opposed to groups under addition where the identity is typically 0. Note that with the rationals, we must exclude zero because, under multiplication, it does not have an inverse: there is no rational number that can be multiplied by zero to result in 1. In this example we have an abelian group, but that is not always the case.

To see this, look at the set of invertible square matrices of a given dimension, over a given field. Now it is straightforward to verify closure, associativity, and inclusion of identity (the identity matrix) and inverses. However, matrix multiplication is not commutative, therefore this group is nonabelian.

Another fact of note is that the integers under multiplication is not a group, even if we exclude zero. This is easily seen by the nonexistence of an inverse for all elements other than 1 and −1.

Multiplication in group theory is typically notated either by a dot, or by juxtaposition (the omission of an operation symbol between elements). So multiplying element a by element b could be notated a {\displaystyle \cdot }\cdot  b or ab. When referring to a group via the indication of the set and operation, the dot is used, e.g., our first example could be indicated by {\displaystyle \left(\mathbb {Q} \smallsetminus \{0\},\cdot \right)}{\displaystyle \left(\mathbb {Q} \smallsetminus \{0\},\cdot \right)}

Multiplication of different kinds of numbers
Numbers can count (3 apples), order (the 3rd apple), or measure (3.5 feet high); as the history of mathematics has progressed from counting on our fingers to modelling quantum mechanics, multiplication has been generalized to more complicated and abstract types of numbers, and to things that are not numbers (such as matrices) or do not look much like numbers (such as quaternions).

Integers
{\displaystyle N\times M}N\times M is the sum of N copies of M when N and M are positive whole numbers. This gives the number of things in an array N wide and M high. Generalization to negative numbers can be done by
{\displaystyle N\times (-M)=(-N)\times M=-(N\times M)}N\times (-M)=(-N)\times M=-(N\times M) and
{\displaystyle (-N)\times (-M)=N\times M}(-N)\times (-M)=N\times M
The same sign rules apply to rational and real numbers.
Rational numbers
Generalization to fractions {\displaystyle {\frac {A}{B}}\times {\frac {C}{D}}}{\frac {A}{B}}\times {\frac {C}{D}} is by multiplying the numerators and denominators respectively: {\displaystyle {\frac {A}{B}}\times {\frac {C}{D}}={\frac {(A\times C)}{(B\times D)}}}{\frac {A}{B}}\times {\frac {C}{D}}={\frac {(A\times C)}{(B\times D)}}. This gives the area of a rectangle {\displaystyle {\frac {A}{B}}}{\frac {A}{B}} high and {\displaystyle {\frac {C}{D}}}{\frac {C}{D}} wide, and is the same as the number of things in an array when the rational numbers happen to be whole numbers.
Real numbers
Real numbers and their products can be defined in terms of sequences of rational numbers.
Complex numbers
Considering complex numbers {\displaystyle z_{1}}z_{1} and {\displaystyle z_{2}}z_{2} as ordered pairs of real numbers {\displaystyle (a_{1},b_{1})}(a_{1},b_{1}) and {\displaystyle (a_{2},b_{2})}(a_{2},b_{2}), the product {\displaystyle z_{1}\times z_{2}}z_{1}\times z_{2} is {\displaystyle (a_{1}\times a_{2}-b_{1}\times b_{2},a_{1}\times b_{2}+a_{2}\times b_{1})}(a_{1}\times a_{2}-b_{1}\times b_{2},a_{1}\times b_{2}+a_{2}\times b_{1}). This is the same as for reals, {\displaystyle a_{1}\times a_{2}}a_{1}\times a_{2}, when the imaginary parts {\displaystyle b_{1}}b_{1} and {\displaystyle b_{2}}b_{2} are zero.
Equivalently, denoting {\displaystyle {\sqrt {-1}}}{\sqrt {-1}} as {\displaystyle i}i, we have {\displaystyle z_{1}\times z_{2}=(a_{1}+b_{1}i)(a_{2}+b_{2}i)=(a_{1}\times a_{2})+(a_{1}\times b_{2}i)+(b_{1}\times a_{2}i)+(b_{1}\times b_{2}i^{2})=(a_{1}a_{2}-b_{1}b_{2})+(a_{1}b_{2}+b_{1}a_{2})i.}z_{1}\times z_{2}=(a_{1}+b_{1}i)(a_{2}+b_{2}i)=(a_{1}\times a_{2})+(a_{1}\times b_{2}i)+(b_{1}\times a_{2}i)+(b_{1}\times b_{2}i^{2})=(a_{1}a_{2}-b_{1}b_{2})+(a_{1}b_{2}+b_{1}a_{2})i.
Further generalizations
See Multiplication in group theory, above, and Multiplicative group, which for example includes matrix multiplication. A very general, and abstract, concept of multiplication is as the "multiplicatively denoted" (second) binary operation in a ring. An example of a ring that is not any of the above number systems is a polynomial ring (you can add and multiply polynomials, but polynomials are not numbers in any usual sense.)
Division
Often division, {\displaystyle {\frac {x}{y}}}{\frac {x}{y}}, is the same as multiplication by an inverse, {\displaystyle x\left({\frac {1}{y}}\right)}x\left({\frac {1}{y}}\right). Multiplication for some types of "numbers" may have corresponding division, without inverses; in an integral domain x may have no inverse "{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{x}}}{\frac {1}{x}}" but {\displaystyle {\frac {x}{y}}}{\frac {x}{y}} may be defined. In a division ring there are inverses, but {\displaystyle {\frac {x}{y}}}{\frac {x}{y}} may be ambiguous in non-commutative rings since {\displaystyle x\left({\frac {1}{y}}\right)}x\left({\frac {1}{y}}\right) need not be the same as {\displaystyle \left({\frac {1}{y}}\right)x}\left({\frac {1}{y}}\right)x.
Exponentiation
Main article: Exponentiation
When multiplication is repeated, the resulting operation is known as exponentiation. For instance, the product of three factors of two (2×2×2) is "two raised to the third power", and is denoted by 23, a two with a superscript three. In this example, the number two is the base, and three is the exponent. In general, the exponent (or superscript) indicates how many times the base appears in the expression, so that the expression

{\displaystyle a^{n}=\underbrace {a\times a\times \cdots \times a} _{n}}a^{n}=\underbrace {a\times a\times \cdots \times a} _{n}
indicates that n copies of the base a are to be multiplied together. This notation can be used whenever multiplication is known to be power associative.9 (nine) is the natural number following 8 and preceding 10. 9 is a composite number, its proper divisors being 1 and 3. It is 3 times 3 and hence the third square number. Nine is a Motzkin number. It is the first composite lucky number, along with the first composite odd number and only single-digit composite odd number. 9 is the only positive perfect power that is one more than another positive perfect power, by Mihăilescu's Theorem. 9 is the highest single-digit number in the decimal system. It is the second non-unitary square prime of the form (p2) and the first that is odd. All subsequent squares of this form are odd. Since 9 = 321, 9 is an exponential factorial. A polygon with nine sides is called a nonagon or enneagon. A group of nine of anything is called an ennead. In base 10, a positive number is divisible by 9 if and only if its digital root is 9. That is, if any natural number is multiplied by 9, and the digits of the answer are repeatedly added until it is just one digit, the sum will be nine: 2 × 9 = 18 (1 + 8 = 9), 3 × 9 = 27 (2 + 7 = 9), 9 × 9 = 81 (8 + 1 = 9), 121 × 9 = 1089 (1 + 0 + 8 + 9 = 18; 1 + 8 = 9), 234 × 9 = 2106 (2 + 1 + 0 + 6 = 9), 578329 × 9 = 5204961 (5 + 2 + 0 + 4 + 9 + 6 + 1 = 27; 2 + 7 = 9), 482729235601 × 9 = 4344563120409 (4 + 3 + 4 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 3 + 1 + 2 + 0 + 4 + 0 + 9 = 45; 4 + 5 = 9), There are other interesting patterns involving multiples of nine: 12345679 × 9 = 111111111, 12345679 × 18 = 222222222, 12345679 × 81 = 999999999, This works for all the multiples of 9. n = 3 is the only other n > 1 such that a number is divisible by n if and only if its digital root is divisible by n. In base-N, the divisors of N − 1 have this property. Another consequence of 9 being 10 − 1, is that it is also a Kaprekar number. The difference between a base-10 positive integer and the sum of its digits is a whole multiple of nine. Examples: The sum of the digits of 41 is 5, and 41 − 5 = 36. The digital root of 36 is 3 + 6 = 9, which, as explained above, demonstrates that it is divisible by nine. The sum of the digits of 35967930 is 3 + 5 + 9 + 6 + 7 + 9 + 3 + 0 = 42, and 35967930 − 42 = 35967888. The digital root of 35967888 is 3 + 5 + 9 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 8 + 8 = 54, 5 + 4 = 9. Casting out nines is a quick way of testing the calculations of sums, differences, products, and quotients of integers, known as long ago as the 12th century. Six recurring nines appear in the decimal places 762 through 767 of π, see Six nines in pi. If dividing a number by the amount of 9s corresponding to its number of digits, the number is turned into a repeating decimal. (e.g. 274/999 = 0.274274274274...) There are nine Heegner numbers. In probability, the nine is a logarithmic measure of the probability of an event, defined as the negative of the base-10 logarithm of the probability of the event's complement.[citation needed] For example, an event that is 99% likely to occur has an unlikelihood of 1% or 0.01, which amounts to −log10 0.01 = 2 nines of probability. Zero probability gives zero nines (−log10 1 = 0). A 100% probability is considered to be impossible in most circumstances: that results in infinite improbability. The effectivity of processes and the availability of systems can be expressed (as a rule of thumb, not explicitly) as a series of "nines". For example, "five nines" (99.999%) availability implies a total downtime of no more than five minutes per year – typically a very high degree of reliability; but never 100%.90 (ninety) is the natural number preceded by 89 and followed by 91. In the English language, the numbers 90 and 19 are often confused, as they sound very similar. When carefully enunciated, they differ in which syllable is stressed: 19 /naɪnˈtiːn/ vs 90 /ˈnaɪnti/. However, in dates such as 1999, and when contrasting numbers in the teens and when counting, such as 17, 18, 19, the stress shifts to the first syllable: 19 /ˈnaɪntiːn/. 90 is: a unitary perfect number because it is the sum of its unitary divisors (excluding itself). a semiperfect number because it is equal to the sum of a subset of its divisors. a pronic number. a nontotient. a Perrin number, preceded in the sequence by 39, 51, 68. a Harshad number since 90 is divisible by the sum of its base 10 digits. In normal space, the interior angles of a rectangle measure 90 degrees each. Also, in a right triangle, the angle opposing the hypotenuse measures 90 degrees, with the other two angles adding up to 90 for a total of 180 degrees. Thus, an angle measuring 90 degrees is called a right angle.A number is a mathematical object used to count, measure, and label. The original examples are the natural numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, and so forth.[1] Individual numbers can be represented by symbols, called numerals; for example, "5" is a numeral that represents the number five. As only a small number of symbols can be memorized, basic numerals are commonly organized in a numeral system, which is an organized way to represent any number. The most common numeral system is the Hindu–Arabic numeral system, which allows representing any number by a combination of ten basic numerals called digits.[2][3] In addition to their use in counting and measuring, numerals are often used for labels (as with telephone numbers), for ordering (as with serial numbers), and for codes (as with ISBNs). In common usage, a numeral is not clearly distinguished from the number that it represents.

In mathematics, the notion of number has been extended over the centuries to include 0,[4] negative numbers,[5] rational numbers such as 
1
/
2
 and −
2
/
3
, real numbers[6] such as √2 and π, and complex numbers,[7] which extend the real numbers with a square root of −1 (and its combinations with real numbers by addition and multiplication).[5] Calculations with numbers are done with arithmetical operations, the most familiar being addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and exponentiation. Their study or usage is called arithmetic. The same term may also refer to number theory, the study of the properties of numbers.

Besides their practical uses, numbers have cultural significance throughout the world.[8][9] For example, in Western society, the number 13 is regarded as unlucky, and "a million" may signify "a lot."[8] Though it is now regarded as pseudoscience, belief in a mystical significance of numbers, known as numerology, permeated ancient and medieval thought.[10] Numerology heavily influenced the development of Greek mathematics, stimulating the investigation of many problems in number theory which are still of interest today.[10]

During the 19th century, mathematicians began to develop many different abstractions which share certain properties of numbers and may be seen as extending the concept. Among the first were the hypercomplex numbers, which consist of various extensions or modifications of the complex number system. Today, number systems are considered important special examples of much more general categories such as rings and fields, and the application of the term "number" is a matter of convention, without fundamental significance.[11]

Numbers should be distinguished from numerals, the symbols used to represent numbers. The Egyptians invented the first ciphered numeral system, and the Greeks followed by mapping their counting numbers onto Ionian and Doric alphabets.[12] Roman numerals, a system that used combinations of letters from the Roman alphabet, remained dominant in Europe until the spread of the superior Hindu–Arabic numeral system around the late 14th century, and the Hindu–Arabic numeral system remains the most common system for representing numbers in the world today.[13] The key to the effectiveness of the system was the symbol for zero, which was developed by ancient Indian mathematicians around 500 AD.[13]

First use of numbers
Main article: History of ancient numeral systems
Bones and other artifacts have been discovered with marks cut into them that many believe are tally marks.[14] These tally marks may have been used for counting elapsed time, such as numbers of days, lunar cycles or keeping records of quantities, such as of animals.

A tallying system has no concept of place value (as in modern decimal notation), which limits its representation of large numbers. Nonetheless tallying systems are considered the first kind of abstract numeral system.

The first known system with place value was the Mesopotamian base 60 system (ca. 3400 BC) and the earliest known base 10 system dates to 3100 BC in Egypt.[15]

Zero 
The first known documented use of zero dates to AD 628, and appeared in the Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta, the main work of the Indian mathematician Brahmagupta. He treated 0 as a number and discussed operations involving it, including division. By this time (the 7th century) the concept had clearly reached Cambodia as Khmer numerals, and documentation shows the idea later spreading to China and the Islamic world.


The number 605 in Khmer numerals, from an inscription from 683 AD. Early use of zero as a decimal figure.
Brahmagupta's Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta is the first book that mentions zero as a number, hence Brahmagupta is usually considered the first to formulate the concept of zero. He gave rules of using zero with negative and positive numbers, such as "zero plus a positive number is a positive number, and a negative number plus zero is the negative number." The Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta is the earliest known text to treat zero as a number in its own right, rather than as simply a placeholder digit in representing another number as was done by the Babylonians or as a symbol for a lack of quantity as was done by Ptolemy and the Romans.

The use of 0 as a number should be distinguished from its use as a placeholder numeral in place-value systems. Many ancient texts used 0. Babylonian and Egyptian texts used it. Egyptians used the word nfr to denote zero balance in double entry accounting. Indian texts used a Sanskrit word Shunye or shunya to refer to the concept of void. In mathematics texts this word often refers to the number zero.[16] In a similar vein, Pāṇini (5th century BC) used the null (zero) operator in the Ashtadhyayi, an early example of an algebraic grammar for the Sanskrit language (also see Pingala).

There are other uses of zero before Brahmagupta, though the documentation is not as complete as it is in the Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta.

Records show that the Ancient Greeks seemed unsure about the status of 0 as a number: they asked themselves "how can 'nothing' be something?" leading to interesting philosophical and, by the Medieval period, religious arguments about the nature and existence of 0 and the vacuum. The paradoxes of Zeno of Elea depend in part on the uncertain interpretation of 0. (The ancient Greeks even questioned whether 1 was a number.)

The late Olmec people of south-central Mexico began to use a symbol for zero, a shell glyph, in the New World, possibly by the 4th century BC but certainly by 40 BC, which became an integral part of Maya numerals and the Maya calendar. Mayan arithmetic used base 4 and base 5 written as base 20. Sanchez in 1961 reported a base 4, base 5 "finger" abacus.

By 130 AD, Ptolemy, influenced by Hipparchus and the Babylonians, was using a symbol for 0 (a small circle with a long overbar) within a sexagesimal numeral system otherwise using alphabetic Greek numerals. Because it was used alone, not as just a placeholder, this Hellenistic zero was the first documented use of a true zero in the Old World. In later Byzantine manuscripts of his Syntaxis Mathematica (Almagest), the Hellenistic zero had morphed into the Greek letter Omicron (otherwise meaning 70).

Another true zero was used in tables alongside Roman numerals by 525 (first known use by Dionysius Exiguus), but as a word, nulla meaning nothing, not as a symbol. When division produced 0 as a remainder, nihil, also meaning nothing, was used. These medieval zeros were used by all future medieval computists (calculators of Easter). An isolated use of their initial, N, was used in a table of Roman numerals by Bede or a colleague about 725, a true zero symbol.

Negative numbers 
Further information: History of negative numbers
The abstract concept of negative numbers was recognized as early as 100–50 BC in China. The Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art contains methods for finding the areas of figures; red rods were used to denote positive coefficients, black for negative.[17] The first reference in a Western work was in the 3rd century AD in Greece. Diophantus referred to the equation equivalent to 4x + 20 = 0 (the solution is negative) in Arithmetica, saying that the equation gave an absurd result.

During the 600s, negative numbers were in use in India to represent debts. Diophantus' previous reference was discussed more explicitly by Indian mathematician Brahmagupta, in Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta in 628, who used negative numbers to produce the general form quadratic formula that remains in use today. However, in the 12th century in India, Bhaskara gives negative roots for quadratic equations but says the negative value "is in this case not to be taken, for it is inadequate; people do not approve of negative roots."

European mathematicians, for the most part, resisted the concept of negative numbers until the 17th century, although Fibonacci allowed negative solutions in financial problems where they could be interpreted as debts (chapter 13 of Liber Abaci, 1202) and later as losses (in Flos). At the same time, the Chinese were indicating negative numbers by drawing a diagonal stroke through the right-most non-zero digit of the corresponding positive number's numeral.[18] The first use of negative numbers in a European work was by Nicolas Chuquet during the 15th century. He used them as exponents, but referred to them as "absurd numbers".

As recently as the 18th century, it was common practice to ignore any negative results returned by equations on the assumption that they were meaningless, just as René Descartes did with negative solutions in a Cartesian coordinate system.

Rational numbers 
It is likely that the concept of fractional numbers dates to prehistoric times. The Ancient Egyptians used their Egyptian fraction notation for rational numbers in mathematical texts such as the Rhind Mathematical Papyrus and the Kahun Papyrus. Classical Greek and Indian mathematicians made studies of the theory of rational numbers, as part of the general study of number theory. The best known of these is Euclid's Elements, dating to roughly 300 BC. Of the Indian texts, the most relevant is the Sthananga Sutra, which also covers number theory as part of a general study of mathematics.

The concept of decimal fractions is closely linked with decimal place-value notation; the two seem to have developed in tandem. For example, it is common for the Jain math sutra to include calculations of decimal-fraction approximations to pi or the square root of 2. Similarly, Babylonian math texts used sexagesimal (base 60) fractions with great frequency.

Irrational numbers 
Further information: History of irrational numbers
The earliest known use of irrational numbers was in the Indian Sulba Sutras composed between 800 and 500 BC.[19] The first existence proofs of irrational numbers is usually attributed to Pythagoras, more specifically to the Pythagorean Hippasus of Metapontum, who produced a (most likely geometrical) proof of the irrationality of the square root of 2. The story goes that Hippasus discovered irrational numbers when trying to represent the square root of 2 as a fraction. However, Pythagoras believed in the absoluteness of numbers, and could not accept the existence of irrational numbers. He could not disprove their existence through logic, but he could not accept irrational numbers, and so, allegedly and frequently reported, he sentenced Hippasus to death by drowning, to impede spreading of this disconcerting news.[20]

The 16th century brought final European acceptance of negative integral and fractional numbers. By the 17th  century, mathematicians generally used decimal fractions with modern notation. It was not, however, until the 19th century that mathematicians separated irrationals into algebraic and transcendental parts, and once more undertook the scientific study of irrationals. It had remained almost dormant since Euclid. In 1872, the publication of the theories of Karl Weierstrass (by his pupil E. Kossak), Eduard Heine (Crelle, 74), Georg Cantor (Annalen, 5), and Richard Dedekind was brought about. In 1869, Charles Méray had taken the same point of departure as Heine, but the theory is generally referred to the year 1872. Weierstrass's method was completely set forth by Salvatore Pincherle (1880), and Dedekind's has received additional prominence through the author's later work (1888) and endorsement by Paul Tannery (1894). Weierstrass, Cantor, and Heine base their theories on infinite series, while Dedekind founds his on the idea of a cut (Schnitt) in the system of real numbers, separating all rational numbers into two groups having certain characteristic properties. The subject has received later contributions at the hands of Weierstrass, Kronecker (Crelle, 101), and Méray.

The search for roots of quintic and higher degree equations was an important development, the Abel–Ruffini theorem (Ruffini 1799, Abel 1824) showed that they could not be solved by radicals (formulas involving only arithmetical operations and roots). Hence it was necessary to consider the wider set of algebraic numbers (all solutions to polynomial equations). Galois (1832) linked polynomial equations to group theory giving rise to the field of Galois theory.

Continued fractions, closely related to irrational numbers (and due to Cataldi, 1613), received attention at the hands of Euler, and at the opening of the 19th century were brought into prominence through the writings of Joseph Louis Lagrange. Other noteworthy contributions have been made by Druckenmüller (1837), Kunze (1857), Lemke (1870), and Günther (1872). Ramus (1855) first connected the subject with determinants, resulting, with the subsequent contributions of Heine, Möbius, and Günther, in the theory of Kettenbruchdeterminanten.

Transcendental numbers and reals 
Further information: History of π
The existence of transcendental numbers[21] was first established by Liouville (1844, 1851). Hermite proved in 1873 that e is transcendental and Lindemann proved in 1882 that π is transcendental. Finally, Cantor showed that the set of all real numbers is uncountably infinite but the set of all algebraic numbers is countably infinite, so there is an uncountably infinite number of transcendental numbers.

Infinity and infinitesimals 
Further information: History of infinity
The earliest known conception of mathematical infinity appears in the Yajur Veda, an ancient Indian script, which at one point states, "If you remove a part from infinity or add a part to infinity, still what remains is infinity." Infinity was a popular topic of philosophical study among the Jain mathematicians c. 400 BC. They distinguished between five types of infinity: infinite in one and two directions, infinite in area, infinite everywhere, and infinite perpetually.

Aristotle defined the traditional Western notion of mathematical infinity. He distinguished between actual infinity and potential infinity—the general consensus being that only the latter had true value. Galileo Galilei's Two New Sciences discussed the idea of one-to-one correspondences between infinite sets. But the next major advance in the theory was made by Georg Cantor; in 1895 he published a book about his new set theory, introducing, among other things, transfinite numbers and formulating the continuum hypothesis.

In the 1960s, Abraham Robinson showed how infinitely large and infinitesimal numbers can be rigorously defined and used to develop the field of nonstandard analysis. The system of hyperreal numbers represents a rigorous method of treating the ideas about infinite and infinitesimal numbers that had been used casually by mathematicians, scientists, and engineers ever since the invention of infinitesimal calculus by Newton and Leibniz.

A modern geometrical version of infinity is given by projective geometry, which introduces "ideal points at infinity", one for each spatial direction. Each family of parallel lines in a given direction is postulated to converge to the corresponding ideal point. This is closely related to the idea of vanishing points in perspective drawing.

Complex numbers 
Further information: History of complex numbers
The earliest fleeting reference to square roots of negative numbers occurred in the work of the mathematician and inventor Heron of Alexandria in the 1st century AD, when he considered the volume of an impossible frustum of a pyramid. They became more prominent when in the 16th century closed formulas for the roots of third and fourth degree polynomials were discovered by Italian mathematicians such as Niccolò Fontana Tartaglia and Gerolamo Cardano. It was soon realized that these formulas, even if one was only interested in real solutions, sometimes required the manipulation of square roots of negative numbers.

This was doubly unsettling since they did not even consider negative numbers to be on firm ground at the time. When René Descartes coined the term "imaginary" for these quantities in 1637, he intended it as derogatory. (See imaginary number for a discussion of the "reality" of complex numbers.) A further source of confusion was that the equation

{\displaystyle \left({\sqrt {-1}}\right)^{2}={\sqrt {-1}}{\sqrt {-1}}=-1}\left({\sqrt {-1}}\right)^{2}={\sqrt {-1}}{\sqrt {-1}}=-1
seemed capriciously inconsistent with the algebraic identity

{\displaystyle {\sqrt {a}}{\sqrt {b}}={\sqrt {ab}},}{\sqrt {a}}{\sqrt {b}}={\sqrt {ab}},
which is valid for positive real numbers a and b, and was also used in complex number calculations with one of a, b positive and the other negative. The incorrect use of this identity, and the related identity

{\displaystyle {\frac {1}{\sqrt {a}}}={\sqrt {\frac {1}{a}}}}{\frac {1}{\sqrt {a}}}={\sqrt {\frac {1}{a}}}
in the case when both a and b are negative even bedeviled Euler. This difficulty eventually led him to the convention of using the special symbol i in place of {\displaystyle {\sqrt {-1}}}{\sqrt {-1}} to guard against this mistake.

The 18th century saw the work of Abraham de Moivre and Leonhard Euler. De Moivre's formula (1730) states:

{\displaystyle (\cos \theta +i\sin \theta )^{n}=\cos n\theta +i\sin n\theta }{\displaystyle (\cos \theta +i\sin \theta )^{n}=\cos n\theta +i\sin n\theta }
while Euler's formula of complex analysis (1748) gave us:

{\displaystyle \cos \theta +i\sin \theta =e^{i\theta }.}{\displaystyle \cos \theta +i\sin \theta =e^{i\theta }.}
The existence of complex numbers was not completely accepted until Caspar Wessel described the geometrical interpretation in 1799. Carl Friedrich Gauss rediscovered and popularized it several years later, and as a result the theory of complex numbers received a notable expansion. The idea of the graphic representation of complex numbers had appeared, however, as early as 1685, in Wallis's De Algebra tractatus.

Also in 1799, Gauss provided the first generally accepted proof of the fundamental theorem of algebra, showing that every polynomial over the complex numbers has a full set of solutions in that realm. The general acceptance of the theory of complex numbers is due to the labors of Augustin Louis Cauchy and Niels Henrik Abel, and especially the latter, who was the first to boldly use complex numbers with a success that is well known.

Gauss studied complex numbers of the form a + bi, where a and b are integral, or rational (and i is one of the two roots of x2 + 1 = 0). His student, Gotthold Eisenstein, studied the type a + bω, where ω is a complex root of x3 − 1 = 0. Other such classes (called cyclotomic fields) of complex numbers derive from the roots of unity xk − 1 = 0 for higher values of k. This generalization is largely due to Ernst Kummer, who also invented ideal numbers, which were expressed as geometrical entities by Felix Klein in 1893.

In 1850 Victor Alexandre Puiseux took the key step of distinguishing between poles and branch points, and introduced the concept of essential singular points. This eventually led to the concept of the extended complex plane.

Prime numbers 
Prime numbers have been studied throughout recorded history. Euclid devoted one book of the Elements to the theory of primes; in it he proved the infinitude of the primes and the fundamental theorem of arithmetic, and presented the Euclidean algorithm for finding the greatest common divisor of two numbers.

In 240 BC, Eratosthenes used the Sieve of Eratosthenes to quickly isolate prime numbers. But most further development of the theory of primes in Europe dates to the Renaissance and later eras.

In 1796, Adrien-Marie Legendre conjectured the prime number theorem, describing the asymptotic distribution of primes. Other results concerning the distribution of the primes include Euler's proof that the sum of the reciprocals of the primes diverges, and the Goldbach conjecture, which claims that any sufficiently large even number is the sum of two primes. Yet another conjecture related to the distribution of prime numbers is the Riemann hypothesis, formulated by Bernhard Riemann in 1859. The prime number theorem was finally proved by Jacques Hadamard and Charles de la Vallée-Poussin in 1896. Goldbach and Riemann's conjectures remain unproven and unrefuted.

Main classification
"Number system" redirects here. For systems for expressing numbers, see Numeral system.
See also: List of types of numbers
Numbers can be classified into sets, called number systems, such as the natural numbers and the real numbers.[22] The major categories of numbers are as follows:

Main number systems
{\displaystyle \mathbb {N} }\mathbb {N} 	Natural	0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, ... or 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, ...
{\displaystyle \mathbb {N} _{0}}\mathbb {N} _{0} or {\displaystyle \mathbb {N} _{1}}\mathbb {N} _{1} are sometimes used.

{\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} }\mathbb {Z} 	Integer	..., −5, −4, −3, −2, −1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, ...
{\displaystyle \mathbb {Q} }\mathbb {Q} 	Rational	
a
/
b
 where a and b are integers and b is not 0
{\displaystyle \mathbb {R} }\mathbb {R} 	Real	The limit of a convergent sequence of rational numbers
{\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }\mathbb {C} 	Complex	a + bi where a and b are real numbers and i is a formal square root of −1
There is generally no problem in identifying each number system with a proper subset of the next one (by abuse of notation), because each of these number systems is canonically isomorphic to a proper subset of the next one.[citation needed] The resulting hierarchy allows, for example, to talk, formally correctly, about real numbers that are rational numbers, and is expressed symbolically by writing

{\displaystyle \mathbb {N} \subset \mathbb {Z} \subset \mathbb {Q} \subset \mathbb {R} \subset \mathbb {C} }\mathbb {N} \subset \mathbb {Z} \subset \mathbb {Q} \subset \mathbb {R} \subset \mathbb {C} .
Natural numbers
Main article: Natural number

The natural numbers, starting with 1
The most familiar numbers are the natural numbers (sometimes called whole numbers or counting numbers): 1, 2, 3, and so on. Traditionally, the sequence of natural numbers started with 1 (0 was not even considered a number for the Ancient Greeks.) However, in the 19th century, set theorists and other mathematicians started including 0 (cardinality of the empty set, i.e. 0 elements, where 0 is thus the smallest cardinal number) in the set of natural numbers.[23][24] Today, different mathematicians use the term to describe both sets, including 0 or not. The mathematical symbol for the set of all natural numbers is N, also written {\displaystyle \mathbb {N} }\mathbb {N} , and sometimes {\displaystyle \mathbb {N} _{0}}\mathbb {N} _{0} or {\displaystyle \mathbb {N} _{1}}\mathbb {N} _{1} when it is necessary to indicate whether the set should start with 0 or 1, respectively.

In the base 10 numeral system, in almost universal use today for mathematical operations, the symbols for natural numbers are written using ten digits: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. The radix or base is the number of unique numerical digits, including zero, that a numeral system uses to represent numbers (for the decimal system, the radix is 10). In this base 10 system, the rightmost digit of a natural number has a place value of 1, and every other digit has a place value ten times that of the place value of the digit to its right.

In set theory, which is capable of acting as an axiomatic foundation for modern mathematics,[25] natural numbers can be represented by classes of equivalent sets. For instance, the number 3 can be represented as the class of all sets that have exactly three elements. Alternatively, in Peano Arithmetic, the number 3 is represented as sss0, where s is the "successor" function (i.e., 3 is the third successor of 0). Many different representations are possible; all that is needed to formally represent 3 is to inscribe a certain symbol or pattern of symbols three times.

Integers
Main article: Integer
The negative of a positive integer is defined as a number that produces 0 when it is added to the corresponding positive integer. Negative numbers are usually written with a negative sign (a minus sign). As an example, the negative of 7 is written −7, and 7 + (−7) = 0. When the set of negative numbers is combined with the set of natural numbers (including 0), the result is defined as the set of integers, Z also written {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} }\mathbb {Z} . Here the letter Z comes from German Zahl, meaning 'number'. The set of integers forms a ring with the operations addition and multiplication.[26]

The natural numbers form a subset of the integers. As there is no common standard for the inclusion or not of zero in the natural numbers, the natural numbers without zero are commonly referred to as positive integers, and the natural numbers with zero are referred to as non-negative integers.

Rational numbers
Main article: Rational number
A rational number is a number that can be expressed as a fraction with an integer numerator and a positive integer denominator. Negative denominators are allowed, but are commonly avoided, as every rational number is equal to a fraction with positive denominator. Fractions are written as two integers, the numerator and the denominator, with a dividing bar between them. The fraction 
m
/
n
 represents m parts of a whole divided into n equal parts. Two different fractions may correspond to the same rational number; for example 
1
/
2
 and 
2
/
4
 are equal, that is:

{\displaystyle {1 \over 2}={2 \over 4}.}{\displaystyle {1 \over 2}={2 \over 4}.}
In general,

{\displaystyle {a \over b}={c \over d}}{\displaystyle {a \over b}={c \over d}} if and only if {\displaystyle {a\times d}={c\times b}.}{\displaystyle {a\times d}={c\times b}.}
If the absolute value of m is greater than n (supposed to be positive), then the absolute value of the fraction is greater than 1. Fractions can be greater than, less than, or equal to 1 and can also be positive, negative, or 0. The set of all rational numbers includes the integers since every integer can be written as a fraction with denominator 1. For example −7 can be written 
−7
/
1
. The symbol for the rational numbers is Q (for quotient), also written {\displaystyle \mathbb {Q} }\mathbb {Q} .

Real numbers
Main article: Real number
The symbol for the real numbers is R, also written as {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} .}{\displaystyle \mathbb {R} .} They include all the measuring numbers. Every real number corresponds to a point on the number line. The following paragraph will focus primarily on positive real numbers. The treatment of negative real numbers is according to the general rules of arithmetic and their denotation is simply prefixing the corresponding positive numeral by a minus sign, e.g. −123.456.

Most real numbers can only be approximated by decimal numerals, in which a decimal point is placed to the right of the digit with place value 1. Each digit to the right of the decimal point has a place value one-tenth of the place value of the digit to its left. For example, 123.456 represents 
123456
/
1000
, or, in words, one hundred, two tens, three ones, four tenths, five hundredths, and six thousandths. A real number can be expressed by a finite number of decimal digits only if it is rational and its fractional part has a denominator whose prime factors are 2 or 5 or both, because these are the prime factors of 10, the base of the decimal system. Thus, for example, one half is 0.5, one fifth is 0.2, one-tenth is 0.1, and one fiftieth is 0.02. Representing other real numbers as decimals would require an infinite sequence of digits to the right of the decimal point. If this infinite sequence of digits follows a pattern, it can be written with an ellipsis or another notation that indicates the repeating pattern. Such a decimal is called a repeating decimal. Thus 
1
/
3
 can be written as 0.333..., with an ellipsis to indicate that the pattern continues. Forever repeating 3s are also written as 0.3.[27]

It turns out that these repeating decimals (including the repetition of zeroes) denote exactly the rational numbers, i.e., all rational numbers are also real numbers, but it is not the case that every real number is rational. A real number that is not rational is called irrational. A famous irrational real number is the number π, the ratio of the circumference of any circle to its diameter. When pi is written as

{\displaystyle \pi =3.14159265358979\dots ,}{\displaystyle \pi =3.14159265358979\dots ,}
as it sometimes is, the ellipsis does not mean that the decimals repeat (they do not), but rather that there is no end to them. It has been proved that π is irrational. Another well-known number, proven to be an irrational real number, is

{\displaystyle {\sqrt {2}}=1.41421356237\dots ,}{\displaystyle {\sqrt {2}}=1.41421356237\dots ,}
the square root of 2, that is, the unique positive real number whose square is 2. Both these numbers have been approximated (by computer) to trillions ( 1 trillion = 1012 = 1,000,000,000,000 ) of digits.

Not only these prominent examples but almost all real numbers are irrational and therefore have no repeating patterns and hence no corresponding decimal numeral. They can only be approximated by decimal numerals, denoting rounded or truncated real numbers. Any rounded or truncated number is necessarily a rational number, of which there are only countably many. All measurements are, by their nature, approximations, and always have a margin of error. Thus 123.456 is considered an approximation of any real number greater or equal to 
1234555
/
10000
 and strictly less than 
1234565
/
10000
 (rounding to 3 decimals), or of any real number greater or equal to 
123456
/
1000
 and strictly less than 
123457
/
1000
 (truncation after the 3. decimal). Digits that suggest a greater accuracy than the measurement itself does, should be removed. The remaining digits are then called significant digits. For example, measurements with a ruler can seldom be made without a margin of error of at least 0.001  meters. If the sides of a rectangle are measured as 1.23 meters and 4.56 meters, then multiplication gives an area for the rectangle between 5.614591 square meters and 5.603011 square meters. Since not even the second digit after the decimal place is preserved, the following digits are not significant. Therefore, the result is usually rounded to 5.61.

Just as the same fraction can be written in more than one way, the same real number may have more than one decimal representation. For example, 0.999..., 1.0, 1.00, 1.000, ..., all represent the natural number 1. A given real number has only the following decimal representations: an approximation to some finite number of decimal places, an approximation in which a pattern is established that continues for an unlimited number of decimal places or an exact value with only finitely many decimal places. In this last case, the last non-zero digit may be replaced by the digit one smaller followed by an unlimited number of 9's, or the last non-zero digit may be followed by an unlimited number of zeros. Thus the exact real number 3.74 can also be written 3.7399999999... and 3.74000000000.... Similarly, a decimal numeral with an unlimited number of 0's can be rewritten by dropping the 0's to the right of the decimal place, and a decimal numeral with an unlimited number of 9's can be rewritten by increasing the rightmost -9 digit by one, changing all the 9's to the right of that digit to 0's. Finally, an unlimited sequence of 0's to the right of the decimal place can be dropped. For example, 6.849999999999... = 6.85 and 6.850000000000... = 6.85. Finally, if all of the digits in a numeral are 0, the number is 0, and if all of the digits in a numeral are an unending string of 9's, you can drop the nines to the right of the decimal place, and add one to the string of 9s to the left of the decimal place. For example, 99.999... = 100.

The real numbers also have an important but highly technical property called the least upper bound property.

It can be shown that any ordered field, which is also complete, is isomorphic to the real numbers. The real numbers are not, however, an algebraically closed field, because they do not include a solution (often called a square root of minus one) to the algebraic equation {\displaystyle x^{2}+1=0}{\displaystyle x^{2}+1=0}.

Complex numbers
Main article: Complex number
Moving to a greater level of abstraction, the real numbers can be extended to the complex numbers. This set of numbers arose historically from trying to find closed formulas for the roots of cubic and quadratic polynomials. This led to expressions involving the square roots of negative numbers, and eventually to the definition of a new number: a square root of −1, denoted by i, a symbol assigned by Leonhard Euler, and called the imaginary unit. The complex numbers consist of all numbers of the form

{\displaystyle \,a+bi}\,a+bi
where a and b are real numbers. Because of this, complex numbers correspond to points on the complex plane, a vector space of two real dimensions. In the expression a + bi, the real number a is called the real part and b is called the imaginary part. If the real part of a complex number is 0, then the number is called an imaginary number or is referred to as purely imaginary; if the imaginary part is 0, then the number is a real number. Thus the real numbers are a subset of the complex numbers. If the real and imaginary parts of a complex number are both integers, then the number is called a Gaussian integer. The symbol for the complex numbers is C or {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }\mathbb {C} .

The fundamental theorem of algebra asserts that the complex numbers form an algebraically closed field, meaning that every polynomial with complex coefficients has a root in the complex numbers. Like the reals, the complex numbers form a field, which is complete, but unlike the real numbers, it is not ordered. That is, there is no consistent meaning assignable to saying that I is greater than 1, nor is there any meaning in saying that I is less than 1. In technical terms, the complex numbers lack a total order that is compatible with field operations.

Subclasses of the integers
Even and odd numbers
Main article: Even and odd numbers
An even number is an integer that is "evenly divisible" by two, that is divisible by two without remainder; an odd number is an integer that is not even. (The old-fashioned term "evenly divisible" is now almost always shortened to "divisible".) Any odd number n may be constructed by the formula n = 2k + 1, for a suitable integer k. Starting with k = 0, the first non-negative odd numbers are {1, 3, 5, 7, ...}. Any even number m has the form m = 2k where k is again an integer. Similarly, the first non-negative even numbers are {0, 2, 4, 6, ...}.

Prime numbers
Main article: Prime number
A prime number is an integer greater than 1 that is not the product of two smaller positive integers. The first few prime numbers are 2, 3, 5, 7, and 11. There is no such simple formula as for odd and even numbers to generate the prime numbers. The primes have been widely studied for more than 2000 years and have led to many questions, only some of which have been answered. The study of these questions belongs to number theory. An example of a still unanswered question is, whether every even number is the sum of two primes. This is called Goldbach's conjecture.

The question, whether every integer greater than one is a product of primes in only one way, except for a rearrangement of the primes, has been answered to the positive: this proven claim is called fundamental theorem of arithmetic. A proof appears in Euclid's Elements.

Other classes of integers
Many subsets of the natural numbers have been the subject of specific studies and have been named, often after the first mathematician that has studied them. Example of such sets of integers are Fibonacci numbers and perfect numbers. For more examples, see Integer sequence.

Subclasses of the complex numbers
Algebraic, irrational and transcendental numbers
Algebraic numbers are those that are a solution to a polynomial equation with integer coefficients. Real numbers that are not rational numbers are called irrational numbers. Complex numbers which are not algebraic are called transcendental numbers. The algebraic numbers that are solutions of a monic polynomial equation with integer coefficients are called algebraic integers.

Constructible numbers
Motivated by the classical problems of constructions with straightedge and compass, the constructible numbers are those complex numbers whose real and imaginary parts can be constructed using straightedge and compass, starting from a given segment of unit length, in a finite number of steps.

Computable numbers
Main article: Computable number
A computable number, also known as recursive number, is a real number such that there exists an algorithm which, given a positive number n as input, produces the first n digits of the computable number's decimal representation. Equivalent definitions can be given using μ-recursive functions, Turing machines or λ-calculus. The computable numbers are stable for all usual arithmetic operations, including the computation of the roots of a polynomial, and thus form a real closed field that contains the real algebraic numbers.

The computable numbers may be viewed as the real numbers that may be exactly represented in a computer: a computable number is exactly represented by its first digits and a program for computing further digits. However, the computable numbers are rarely used in practice. One reason is that there is no algorithm for testing the equality of two computable numbers. More precisely, there cannot exist any algorithm which takes any computable number as an input, and decides in every case if this number is equal to zero or not.

The set of computable numbers has the same cardinality as the natural numbers. Therefore, almost all real numbers are non-computable. However, it is very difficult to produce explicitly a real number that is not computable.

Extensions of the concept
p-adic numbers
Main article: p-adic number
The p-adic numbers may have infinitely long expansions to the left of the decimal point, in the same way that real numbers may have infinitely long expansions to the right. The number system that results depends on what base is used for the digits: any base is possible, but a prime number base provides the best mathematical properties. The set of the p-adic numbers contains the rational numbers, but is not contained in the complex numbers.

The elements of an algebraic function field over a finite field and algebraic numbers have many similar properties (see Function field analogy). Therefore, they are often regarded as numbers by number theorists. The p-adic numbers play an important role in this analogy.

Hypercomplex numbers
Main article: hypercomplex number
Some number systems that are not included in the complex numbers may be constructed from the real numbers in a way that generalize the construction of the complex numbers. They are sometimes called hypercomplex numbers. They include the quaternions H, introduced by Sir William Rowan Hamilton, in which multiplication is not commutative, the octonions, in which multiplication is not associative in addition to not being commutative, and the sedenions, in which multiplication is not alternative, neither associative nor commutative.

Transfinite numbers
Main article: transfinite number
For dealing with infinite sets, the natural numbers have been generalized to the ordinal numbers and to the cardinal numbers. The former gives the ordering of the set, while the latter gives its size. For finite sets, both ordinal and cardinal numbers are identified with the natural numbers. In the infinite case, many ordinal numbers correspond to the same cardinal number.

Nonstandard numbers
Hyperreal numbers are used in non-standard analysis. The hyperreals, or nonstandard reals (usually denoted as *R), denote an ordered field that is a proper extension of the ordered field of real numbers R and satisfies the transfer principle. This principle allows true first-order statements about R to be reinterpreted as true first-order statements about *R.

Superreal and surreal numbers extend the real numbers by adding infinitesimally small numbers and infinitely large numbers, but still form fields.This is a list of articles about numbers. Due to the infinitude of many sets of numbers, this list will invariably be incomplete. Hence, only particularly notable numbers will be included. Numbers may be included in the list based on their mathematical, historical or cultural notability, but all numbers have qualities which could arguably make them notable. Even the least "interesting" number is paradoxically interesting for that very property. This is known as the interesting number paradox.

The definition of what is classed as a number is rather diffuse and based on historical distinctions. For example the pair of numbers (3,4) is commonly regarded as a number when it is in the form of a complex number (3+4i), but not when it is in the form of a vector (3,4). This list will also be categorised with the standard convention of types of numbers.

This list focuses on numbers as mathematical objects and is not a list of numerals, which are linguistic devices: nouns, adjectives, or adverbs that designate numbers. The distinction is drawn between the number five (an abstract object equal to 2+3), and the numeral five (the noun referring to the number).

Natural numbers
Main article: Natural number
The natural numbers are a subset of the integers and are of historical and pedagogical value as they can be used for counting and often have ethno-cultural significance (see below). Beyond this, natural numbers are widely used as a building block for other number systems including the integers, rational numbers and real numbers. Natural numbers are those used for counting (as in "there are six (6) coins on the table") and ordering (as in "this is the third (3rd) largest city in the country"). In common language, words used for counting are "cardinal numbers" and words used for ordering are "ordinal numbers". Defined by the Peano axioms, the natural numbers form an infinitely large set.

The inclusion of 0 in the set of natural numbers is ambiguous and subject to individual definitions. In set theory and computer science, 0 is typically considered a natural number. In number theory, it usually is not. The ambiguity can be solved with the terms "non-negative integers", which includes 0, and "positive integers", which does not.

Natural numbers may be used as cardinal numbers, which may go by various names. Natural numbers may also be used as ordinal numbers.

Table of small natural numbers. Click to 
0	1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9
10	11	12	13	14	15	16	17	18	19
20	21	22	23	24	25	26	27	28	29
30	31	32	33	34	35	36	37	38	39
40	41	42	43	44	45	46	47	48	49
50	51	52	53	54	55	56	57	58	59
60	61	62	63	64	65	66	67	68	69
70	71	72	73	74	75	76	77	78	79
80	81	82	83	84	85	86	87	88	89
90	91	92	93	94	95	96	97	98	99
100	101	102	103	104	105	106	107	108	109
110	111	112	113	114	115	116	117	118	119
120	121	122	123	124	125	126	127	128	129
130	131	132	133	134	135	136	137	138	139
140	141	142	143	144	145	146	147	148	149
150	151	152	153	154	155	156	157	158	159
160	161	162	163	164	165	166	167	168	169
170	171	172	173	174	175	176	177	178	179
180	181	182	183	184	185	186	187	188	189
190	191	192	193	194	195	196	197	198	199
200	201	202	203	204	205	206	207	208	209
210	211	212	213	214	215	216	217	218	219
220	221	222	223	224	225	226	227	228	229
230	231	232	233	234	235	236	237	238	239
240	241	242	243	244	245	246	247	248	249
250	251	252	253	254	255	256	257	258	259
260	261	270	280	290	300	400	500	600	700
800	900	1000	2000	3000	4000	5000	6000	7000	8000
9000	10000	20000	30000	40000	50000	60000	70000	80000	90000
105	106	107	108	109	Larger numbers, including 10100 and 1010100
Mathematical significance
Natural numbers may have properties specific to the individual number or may be part of a set (such as prime numbers) of numbers with a particular property.

List of mathematically significant natural numbers[hide]
1, the multiplicative identity. Also the only natural number (not including 0) that isn't prime or composite.
2, the base of the binary number system, used in almost all modern computers and information systems.
3, 22-1, the first Mersenne prime. It is the first odd prime, and it is also the 2 bit integer maximum value.
4, the first composite number
6, the first of the series of perfect numbers, whose proper factors sum to the number itself.
9, the first odd number that is composite
11, the fifth prime and first palindromic multi-digit number in base 10.
12, the first sublime number.
17, the sum of the first 4 prime numbers, and the only prime which is the sum of 4 consecutive primes.
24, all Dirichlet characters mod n are real if and only if n is a divisor of 24.
25, the first centered square number besides 1 that is also a square number
27, the cube of 3, the value of {\displaystyle 3\uparrow \uparrow 2}{\displaystyle 3\uparrow \uparrow 2}, where {\displaystyle \uparrow }\uparrow  is Knuth's up-arrow notation.
28, the second perfect number.
30, the smallest sphenic number.
32, the smallest nontrivial fifth power.
36, the smallest number which is perfect power but not prime power.
72, the smallest Achilles number.
255, 28 − 1, the smallest perfect totient number that is neither a power of three nor thrice a prime; it is also the largest number that can be represented using an 8-bit unsigned integer
341, the smallest base 2 Fermat pseudoprime.
496, the third perfect number.
1729, the Hardy–Ramanujan number, also known as the second taxicab number; that is, the smallest positive integer that can be written as the sum of two positive cubes in two different ways.[1]
8128, the fourth perfect number.
142857, the smallest base 10 cyclic number.
9814072356, the largest perfect power that contains no repeated digits in base ten.
Cultural or practical significance
Along with their mathematical properties, many integers have cultural significance or are also notable for their use in computing and measurement. As mathematical properties (such as divisibility) can confer practical utility, there may be interplay and connections between the cultural or practical significance of an integer and its mathematical properties.

List of integers notable for their cultural meanings.[hide]
3, significant in Christianity as the Trinity. Also considered significant in Hinduism (Trimurti, Tridevi). Holds significance in a number of ancient mythologies.
4, considered an "unlucky number" in modern China, Japan and Korea due to its audible similarity to the word "death."
5, number of fingers or toes for almost all amphibians, reptiles and mammals
7, considered a "lucky" number in Western cultures.
8, considered a "lucky" number in Chinese culture due to its aural similarity to the term for prosperity.
11, the number of players on an association football team.
12, the number base for some ancient counting systems and the basis for some modern measuring systems. Known as a dozen.
13, considered an "unlucky" number in Western superstition. Also known as a "Baker's Dozen".
15, the number of players on a rugby union team. It is also the first point received in tennis.
16, the base of the hexadecimal number system which is utilized within many programming languages.
18, age of majority in most countries in the world.[citation needed]
19, the length of one side of a Go board.
21, the legal drinking age in the United States.
22, the namesake of catch-22, a paradoxical condition in which there is no escape due to mutually conflicting or dependent conditions.
23, number of chromosomes in a human haploid. Other human cells have 23 pairs of chromosomes.
26, the number of English letters, bijective base 26 is used in the columns of Microsoft Excel.
42, the "answer to the ultimate question of life, the universe, and everything" in the popular 1979 science fiction work The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
69, used as slang to refer to a sexual act.
86, a slang term that is used in the American popular culture as a transitive verb to mean throw out or get rid of.[2]
108, considered sacred by the Dharmic Religions. Approximately equal to the ratio of the distance from Earth to Sun and diameter of the Sun.
420, a code-term that refers to the consumption of cannabis.
666, the Number of the Beast from the Book of Revelation.
786, regarded as sacred in the Muslim Abjad numerology.
5040, mentioned by Plato in the Laws as one of the most important numbers for the city.
List of integers notable for their use in units, measurements and scales.[hide]
10, the number of digits in the decimal number system.
14, the number of days in a fortnight.
16, the number of digits in the hexadecimal number system.
24, number of hours in a day
25, the number of cents in a quarter.
31, the number of days most months of the year have.
60, the number base for some ancient counting systems, such as the Babylonians', and the basis for many modern measuring systems.
365, the number of days in the common year.
List of integers notable in computing[hide]
8, the number of bits in a byte
256, The number of possible combinations within 8 bits, or a byte.
1024, the number of bytes in a kibibyte. It's also the number of bits in a kibibit.
65535, 216 − 1, the maximum value of a 16-bit unsigned integer.
65536, 216, the number of possible 16-bit combinations.
65537, 216 + 1, the most popular RSA public key prime exponent in most SSL/TLS certificates on the Web/Internet.
16777216, 224, or 166; the hexadecimal "million" (0x1000000), and the total number of possible color combinations in 24/32-bit True Color computer graphics.
2147483647, 231 − 1, the maximum value of a 32-bit signed integer using two's complement representation.
9223372036854775807, 263 − 1, the maximum value of a 64-bit signed integer using two's complement representation.
Classes of natural numbers
Subsets of the natural numbers, such as the prime numbers, may be grouped into sets, for instance based on the divisibility of their members. Infinitely many such sets are possible. A list of notable classes of natural numbers may be found at classes of natural numbers.

Prime numbers
Main articles: Prime number and List of prime numbers
A prime number is a positive integer which has exactly two divisors: 1 and itself.

The first 100 prime numbers are:

Table of first 100 prime numbers. Click to 
  2	  3	  5	  7	 11	 13	 17	 19	 23	 29
 31	 37	 41	 43	 47	 53	 59	 61	 67	 71
 73	 79	 83	 89	 97	101	103	107	109	113
127	131	137	139	149	151	157	163	167	173
179	181	191	193	197	199	211	223	227	229
233	239	241	251	257	263	269	271	277	281
283	293	307	311	313	317	331	337	347	349
353	359	367	373	379	383	389	397	401	409
419	421	431	433	439	443	449	457	461	463
467	479	487	491	499	503	509	521	523	541
Highly composite numbers
Main article: Highly composite number
A highly composite number (HCN) is a positive integer with more divisors than any smaller positive integer. They are often used in geometry, grouping and time measurement.

The first 20 highly composite numbers are:

1, 2, 4, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 120, 180, 240, 360, 720, 840, 1260, 1680, 2520, 5040, 7560.

Perfect numbers
Main article: Perfect number
A perfect number is an integer that is the sum of its positive proper divisors (all divisors except itself).

The first 10 perfect numbers:

  6
  28
  496
  8128
  33 550 336
  8 589 869 056
  137 438 691 328
  2 305 843 008 139 952 128
  2 658 455 991 569 831 744 654 692 615 953 842 176
  191 561 942 608 236 107 294 793 378 084 303 638 130 997 321 548 169 216
Integers
Main article: Integer
The integers are a set of numbers commonly encountered in arithmetic and number theory. There are many subsets of the integers, including the natural numbers, prime numbers, perfect numbers, etc. Many integers are notable for their mathematical properties.

Notable integers include −1, the additive inverse of unity, and 0, the additive identity.

As with the natural numbers, the integers may also have cultural or practical significance. For instance, −40 is the equal point in the Fahrenheit and Celsius scales.

SI prefixes
One important use of integers is in orders of magnitude. A power of ten is a number 10k, where k is an integer. For instance, with k = 0, 1, 2, 3, ..., the appropriate powers of ten are 1, 10, 100, 1000, ... Powers of ten can also be fractional: for instance, k = -3 gives 1/1000, or 0.001. This is used in scientific notation, real numbers are written in the form m × 10n. The number 394,000 is written in this form as 3.94 × 105.

Integers are used as prefixes in the SI system. A metric prefix is a unit prefix that precedes a basic unit of measure to indicate a multiple or fraction of the unit. Each prefix has a unique symbol that is prepended to the unit symbol. The prefix kilo-, for example, may be added to gram to indicate multiplication by one thousand: one kilogram is equal to one thousand grams. The prefix milli-, likewise, may be added to metre to indicate division by one thousand; one millimetre is equal to one thousandth of a metre.

Value	1000m	Name
1000	10001	Kilo
1000000	10002	Mega
1000000000	10003	Giga
1000000000000	10004	Tera
1000000000000000	10005	Peta
1000000000000000000	10006	Exa
1000000000000000000000	10007	Zetta
1000000000000000000000000	10008	Yotta
Rational numbers
Main article: Rational number
A rational number is any number that can be expressed as the quotient or fraction p/q of two integers, a numerator p and a non-zero denominator q.[3] Since q may be equal to 1, every integer is trivially a rational number. The set of all rational numbers, often referred to as "the rationals", the field of rationals or the field of rational numbers is usually denoted by a boldface Q (or blackboard bold {\displaystyle \mathbb {Q} }\mathbb {Q} , Unicode ℚ);[4] it was thus denoted in 1895 by Giuseppe Peano after quoziente, Italian for "quotient".

Rational numbers such as 0.12 can be represented in infinitely many ways, e.g. zero-point-one-two (0.12), three twenty-fifths (
3
/
25
), nine seventy-fifths (
9
/
75
), etc. This can be mitigated by representing rational numbers in a canonical form as an irreducible fraction.

A list of rational numbers is shown below. The names of fractions can be found at numeral (linguistics).

Table of notable rational numbers. Click to 
Decimal expansion	Fraction	Notability
1	
1
/
1
One is the multiplicative identity. One is trivially a rational number, as it is equal to 1/1.
-0.083 333...	-1/12	The value counter-intuitively ascribed to the series 1+2+3....
0.5	
1
/
2
One half occurs commonly in mathematical equations and in real world proportions. One half appears in the formula for the area of a triangle: 
1
/
2
 × base × perpendicular height and in the formulae for figurate numbers, such as triangular numbers and pentagonal numbers.
3.142 857...	22/7	A widely used approximation for the number {\displaystyle \pi }\pi . It can be proven that this number exceeds {\displaystyle \pi }\pi .
0.166 666...	1/6	One sixth. Often appears in mathematical equations, such as in the sum of squares of the integers and in the solution to the Basel problem.
Irrational numbers
Main article: Irrational number
The irrational numbers are a set of numbers that includes all real numbers that are not rational numbers. The irrational numbers are categorised as algebraic numbers (which are the root of a polynomial with rational coefficients) or transcendental numbers, which are not.

Algebraic numbers
Main article: Algebraic number
Name	Expression	Decimal expansion	Notability
Golden ratio conjugate ({\displaystyle \Phi }\Phi )	
√5 − 1
/
2
0.618033988749894848204586834366	Reciprocal of (and one less than) the golden ratio.
Twelfth root of two	12√2	1.059463094359295264561825294946	Proportion between the frequencies of adjacent semitones in the 12 tone equal temperament scale.
Cube root of two	3√2	1.259921049894873164767210607278	Length of the edge of a cube with volume two. See doubling the cube for the significance of this number.
Conway's constant	(cannot be written as expressions involving integers and the operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and the extraction of roots)	1.303577269034296391257099112153	Defined as the unique positive real root of a certain polynomial of degree 71.
Plastic number	{\displaystyle {\sqrt[{3}]{{\frac {1}{2}}+{\frac {1}{6}}{\sqrt {\frac {23}{3}}}}}+{\sqrt[{3}]{{\frac {1}{2}}-{\frac {1}{6}}{\sqrt {\frac {23}{3}}}}}}{\sqrt[ {3}]{{\frac  {1}{2}}+{\frac  {1}{6}}{\sqrt  {{\frac  {23}{3}}}}}}+{\sqrt[ {3}]{{\frac  {1}{2}}-{\frac  {1}{6}}{\sqrt  {{\frac  {23}{3}}}}}}	1.324717957244746025960908854478	The unique real root of the cubic equation x3 = x + 1.
Square root of two	√2	1.414213562373095048801688724210	√2 = 2 sin 45° = 2 cos 45° Square root of two a.k.a. Pythagoras' constant. Ratio of diagonal to side length in a square. Proportion between the sides of paper sizes in the ISO 216 series (originally DIN 476 series).
Supergolden ratio	{\displaystyle {\dfrac {1+{\sqrt[{3}]{\dfrac {29+3{\sqrt {93}}}{2}}}+{\sqrt[{3}]{\dfrac {29-3{\sqrt {93}}}{2}}}}{3}}}{\displaystyle {\dfrac {1+{\sqrt[{3}]{\dfrac {29+3{\sqrt {93}}}{2}}}+{\sqrt[{3}]{\dfrac {29-3{\sqrt {93}}}{2}}}}{3}}}	1.465571231876768026656731225220	The only real solution of {\displaystyle x^{3}=x^{2}+1}{\displaystyle x^{3}=x^{2}+1}. Also the limit to the ratio between subsequent numbers in the binary Look-and-say sequence and the Narayana's cows sequence (OEIS: A000930).
Triangular root of 2.	
√17 − 1
/
2
1.561552812808830274910704927987	
Golden ratio (φ)	
√5 + 1
/
2
1.618033988749894848204586834366	The larger of the two real roots of x2 = x + 1.
Square root of three	√3	1.732050807568877293527446341506	√3 = 2 sin 60° = 2 cos 30° . A.k.a. the measure of the fish. Length of the space diagonal of a cube with edge length 1. Altitude of an equilateral triangle with side length 2. Altitude of a regular hexagon with side length 1 and diagonal length 2.
Tribonacci constant.	{\displaystyle {\frac {1+{\sqrt[{3}]{19+3{\sqrt {33}}}}+{\sqrt[{3}]{19-3{\sqrt {33}}}}}{3}}}{\frac {1+{\sqrt[{3}]{19+3{\sqrt {33}}}}+{\sqrt[{3}]{19-3{\sqrt {33}}}}}{3}}	1.839286755214161132551852564653	Appears in the volume and coordinates of the snub cube and some related polyhedra. It satisfies the equation x + x−3 = 2.
Square root of five.	√5	2.236067977499789696409173668731	Length of the diagonal of a 1 × 2 rectangle.
Silver ratio (δS)	√2 + 1	2.414213562373095048801688724210	The larger of the two real roots of x2 = 2x + 1.
Altitude of a regular octagon with side length 1.
Square root of 6	√6	2.449489742783178098197284074706	√2 · √3 = area of a √2 × √3 rectangle. Length of the space diagonal of a 1 × 1 × 2 rectangular box.
Square root of 7	√7	2.645751311064590590501615753639	
Square root of 8	√8	2.828427124746190097603377448419	2√2
Square root of 10	√10	3.162277660168379331998893544433	√2 · √5 . Length of the diagonal of a 1 × 3 rectangle.
Bronze ratio (S3)	
√13 + 3
/
2
3.302775637731994646559610633735	The larger of the two real roots of x2 = 3x + 1.
Square root of 11	√11	3.316624790355399849114932736671	Length of the space diagonal of a 1 × 1 × 3 rectangular box.
Square root of 12	√12	3.464101615137754587054892683012	2√3 . Length of the space diagonal of a cube with edge length 2.
Transcendental numbers
Main article: Transcendental number
Name	Symbol
or

Formula

Decimal expansion	Notes and notability
Gelfond's constant	eπ	23.14069263277925...	
Ramanujan's constant	eπ√163	262537412640768743.99999999999925...	
Gaussian integral	√π	1.772453850905516...	
Komornik–Loreti constant	q	1.787231650...	
Universal parabolic constant	P2	2.29558714939...	
Gelfond–Schneider constant	2√2	2.665144143...	
Euler's number	e	2.718281828459045235360287471352662497757247...	
Pi	π	3.141592653589793238462643383279502884197169399375...	
Riemann zeta function at s=2	
π2
/
6
1.644934066848226436472415...	Also represented as ζ(2)
Riemann zeta function at s=4	
π4
/
90
1.082323...[5]	Also represented as ζ(4)
Super square-root of 2	√2s	1.559610469...[6]	
Liouville constant	c	0.110001000000000000000001000...	
Champernowne constant	C10	0.12345678910111213141516...	
Reciprocal of pi	
1
/
π
0.318309886183790671537767526745028724068919291480...[7]	
Reciprocal of Euler's number	
1
/
e
0.367879441171442321595523770161460867445811131031...[7]	
Prouhet–Thue–Morse constant	τ	0.412454033640...	
Base ten logarithm of Euler's number	log10 e	0.434294481903251827651128918916605082294397005803...[7]	
Omega constant	Ω	0.5671432904097838729999686622...	
Cahen's constant	c	0.64341054629...	
Natural logarithm of 2	ln 2	0.693147180559945309417232121458	
Gauss's constant	G	0.8346268...	
Tau	2π: τ	6.283185307179586476925286766559...	The ratio of the circumference to a radius, and the number of radians in a complete circle[8][9]
Irrational but not known to be transcendental
Some numbers are known to be irrational numbers, but have not been proven to be transcendental. This differs from the algebraic numbers, which are known not to be transcendental.

Name	Decimal expansion	Proof of irrationality	Reference of unknown transcendentality
ζ(3), also known as Apéry's constant	1.202056903159594285399738161511449990764986292	[10]	[11]
Erdős–Borwein constant, E	1.606695152415291763...	[12][13]	[citation needed]
Copeland–Erdős constant	0.235711131719232931374143...	Can be proven with Dirichlet's theorem on arithmetic progressions or Bertrand's postulate (Hardy and Wright, p. 113) or Ramare's theorem that every even integer is a sum of at most six primes. It also follows directly from its normality.	[citation needed]
Prime constant, ρ	0.414682509851111660248109622...	Proof of the number's irrationality is given at prime constant.	[citation needed]
Reciprocal Fibonacci constant, ψ	3.359885666243177553172011302918927179688905133731...	[14][15]	[16]
Real numbers
The real numbers are a superset containing the algebraic and the transcendental numbers. For some numbers, it is not known whether they are algebraic or transcendental. The following list includes real numbers that have not been proved to be irrational, nor transcendental.

Real but not known to be irrational, nor transcendental
Name and symbol	Decimal expansion	Notes
1st Feigenbaum constant, δ	4.6692...	Both Feigenbaum constants are believed to be transcendental, although they have not been proven to be so.[17]
2nd Feigenbaum constant, α	2.5029...	Both Feigenbaum constants are believed to be transcendental, although they have not been proven to be so.[17]
Barban's constant	2.596536...[18]	
Backhouse's constant	1.456074948...	
Fransén–Robinson constant, F	2.8077702420...	
Glaisher–Kinkelin constant, A	1.28242712...	
Khinchin's constant, K0	2.685452001...[19]	It is not known whether this number is irrational.[20]
Lévy's constant, γ	3.275822918721811159787681882...	
Mills' constant, A	1.30637788386308069046...	It is not known whether this number is irrational.(Finch 2003)
Murata's constant	2.826419...[21]	
Ramanujan–Soldner constant, μ	1.451369234883381050283968485892027449493...	
Sierpiński's constant, K	2.5849817595792532170658936...	
Totient summatory constant	1.339784...[22]	
Van der Pauw's constant, 
π
/
ln 2
4.53236014182719380962...[23]	
Vardi's constant, E	1.264084735305...	
Favard constant, K1	1.57079633...	
Somos' quadratic recurrence constant, σ	1.661687949633594121296...	
Niven's constant, c	1.705211...	
Brun's constant, B2	1.902160583104...	The irrationality of this number would be a consequence of the truth of the infinitude of twin primes.
Landau's totient constant	1.943596...[24]	
Brun's constant for prime quadruplets, B4	0.8705883800...	
Quadratic class number constant	0.881513...[25]	
Catalan's constant, G	0.915965594177219015054603514932384110774...	It is not known whether this number is irrational.[26]
Viswanath's constant, σ(1)	1.1319882487943...	
Khinchin–Lévy constant	1.1865691104...[27]	This number represents the probability that three random numbers have no common factor greater than 1.[28]
Sarnak's constant	0.723648...[29]	
Landau–Ramanujan constant	0.76422365358922066299069873125...	
C(1)	0.77989340037682282947420641365...	
Z(1)	−0.736305462867317734677899828925614672...	
Heath-Brown–Moroz constant, C	0.001317641...	
Kepler–Bouwkamp constant	0.1149420448...	
MRB constant	0.187859...	It is not known whether this number is irrational.
Meissel–Mertens constant, M	0.2614972128476427837554268386086958590516...	
Bernstein's constant, β	0.2801694990...	
Strongly carefree constant	0.286747...[30]	
Gauss–Kuzmin–Wirsing constant, λ1	0.3036630029...[31]	
Hafner–Sarnak–McCurley constant	0.3532363719...	
Artin's constant	0.3739558136...	
Carefree constant	0.428249...[32]	
S(1)	0.438259147390354766076756696625152...	
F(1)	0.538079506912768419136387420407556...	
Stephens' constant	0.575959...[33]	
Euler–Mascheroni constant, γ	0.577215664901532860606512090082...	It is not known whether this number is irrational.
Golomb–Dickman constant, λ	0.62432998854355087099293638310083724...	
Twin prime constant, C2	0.660161815846869573927812110014...	
Feller–Tornier constant	0.661317...[34]	
Laplace limit, ε	0.6627434193...[35]	
Taniguchi's constant	0.678234...[36]	
Continued Fraction Constant, C	0.697774657964007982006790592551...[37]	
Embree–Trefethen constant	0.70258...	
Numbers not known with high precision
Some real numbers, including transcendental numbers, are not known with high precision.

The constant in the Berry–Esseen Theorem: 0.4097 < C < 0.4748
De Bruijn–Newman constant: 0 ≤ Λ ≤ 0.22
Chaitin's constants Ω, which are transcendental and provably impossible to compute.
Bloch's constant (also 2nd Landau's constant): 0.4332 < B < 0.4719
1st Landau's constant: 0.5 < L < 0.5433
3rd Landau's constant: 0.5 < A ≤ 0.7853
Grothendieck constant: 1.67 < k < 1.79
Romanov's constant in Romanov's theorem: 0.107648 < d < 0.49094093, Romanov conjectured that it is 0.434
Hypercomplex numbers
Main article: Hypercomplex number
Hypercomplex number is a term for an element of a unital algebra over the field of real numbers.

Algebraic complex numbers
Imaginary unit: i = √−1
nth roots of unity: (ξn)k = cos (2π 
k
/
n
) + i sin (2π 
k
/
n
), while 0 ≤ k ≤ n−1, GCD(k, n) = 1
Other hypercomplex numbers
The quaternions
The octonions
The sedenions
The dual numbers (with an infinitesimal)
Transfinite numbers
Main article: Transfinite number
Transfinite numbers are numbers that are "infinite" in the sense that they are larger than all finite numbers, yet not necessarily absolutely infinite.

Aleph-null: ℵ0: the smallest infinite cardinal, and the cardinality of ℕ, the set of natural numbers
Aleph-one: ℵ1: the cardinality of ω1, the set of all countable ordinal numbers
Beth-one: ℶ1 the cardinality of the continuum 2ℵ0
ℭ or {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {c}}}{\mathfrak {c}}: the cardinality of the continuum 2ℵ0
omega: ω, the smallest infinite ordinal
Numbers representing physical quantities
Main articles: Physical constant and List of physical constants
Physical quantities that appear in the universe are often described using physical constants.

Avogadro constant: NA = 6.02214076×1023 mol−1[38]
Electron mass: me = 9.1093837015(28)×10−31 kg[39]
Fine structure constant: α = 7.2973525693(11)×10−3[40]
Gravitational constant: G = 6.67430(15)×10−11 m3⋅kg−1⋅s−2[41]
Molar mass constant: Mu = 0.99999999965(30)×10−3 kg⋅mol−1[42]
Planck constant: h = 6.62607015×10−34 J⋅s[43]
Rydberg constant: R∞ = 10973731.568160(21) m−1[44]
Speed of light in vacuum: c = 299792458 m/s[45]
Vacuum electric permittivity: ε0 = 8.8541878128(13)×10−12 F⋅m−1[46]
Numbers without specific values
Main article: Indefinite and fictitious numbers
Many languages have words expressing indefinite and fictitious numbers—inexact terms of indefinite size, used for comic effect, for exaggeration, as placeholder names, or when precision is unnecessary or undesirable. One technical term for such words is "non-numerical vague quantifier".[47] Such words designed to indicate large quantities can be called "indefinite hyperbolic numerals".[48]

Named numbers
Eddington number
Euler's number, e ≈ 2.71828
Googol, 10100
Googolplex, 10(10100)
Googolplexian, 10(10(10100))
Graham's number
Hardy–Ramanujan number, 1729
Kaprekar's constant, 6174
Moser's number
Rayo's number
Shannon number
Skewes's numberNumber theory (or arithmetic or higher arithmetic in older usage) is a branch of pure mathematics devoted primarily to the study of the integers and integer-valued functions. German mathematician Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777–1855) said, "Mathematics is the queen of the sciences—and number theory is the queen of mathematics."[1] Number theorists study prime numbers as well as the properties of objects made out of integers (for example, rational numbers) or defined as generalizations of the integers (for example, algebraic integers).

Integers can be considered either in themselves or as solutions to equations (Diophantine geometry). Questions in number theory are often best understood through the study of analytical objects (for example, the Riemann zeta function) that encode properties of the integers, primes or other number-theoretic objects in some fashion (analytic number theory). One may also study real numbers in relation to rational numbers, for example, as approximated by the latter (Diophantine approximation).

The older term for number theory is arithmetic. By the early twentieth century, it had been superseded by "number theory".[note 1] (The word "arithmetic" is used by the general public to mean "elementary calculations"; it has also acquired other meanings in mathematical logic, as in Peano arithmetic, and computer science, as in floating point arithmetic.) The use of the term arithmetic for number theory regained some ground in the second half of the 20th century, arguably in part due to French influence.[note 2] In particular, arithmetical is preferred as an adjective to number-theoretic.

The Plimpton 322 tablet
The earliest historical find of an arithmetical nature is a fragment of a table: the broken clay tablet Plimpton 322 (Larsa, Mesopotamia, ca. 1800 BCE) contains a list of "Pythagorean triples", that is, integers {\displaystyle (a,b,c)}(a,b,c) such that {\displaystyle a^{2}+b^{2}=c^{2}}a^{2}+b^{2}=c^{2}. The triples are too many and too large to have been obtained by brute force. The heading over the first column reads: "The takiltum of the diagonal which has been subtracted such that the width..."[2]

The table's layout suggests[3] that it was constructed by means of what amounts, in modern language, to the identity

{\displaystyle \left({\frac {1}{2}}\left(x-{\frac {1}{x}}\right)\right)^{2}+1=\left({\frac {1}{2}}\left(x+{\frac {1}{x}}\right)\right)^{2},}{\displaystyle \left({\frac {1}{2}}\left(x-{\frac {1}{x}}\right)\right)^{2}+1=\left({\frac {1}{2}}\left(x+{\frac {1}{x}}\right)\right)^{2},}
which is implicit in routine Old Babylonian exercises.[4] If some other method was used,[5] the triples were first constructed and then reordered by {\displaystyle c/a}c/a, presumably for actual use as a "table", for example, with a view to applications.

It is not known what these applications may have been, or whether there could have been any; Babylonian astronomy, for example, truly came into its own only later. It has been suggested instead that the table was a source of numerical examples for school problems.[6][note 3]

While Babylonian number theory—or what survives of Babylonian mathematics that can be called thus—consists of this single, striking fragment, Babylonian algebra (in the secondary-school sense of "algebra") was exceptionally well developed.[7] Late Neoplatonic sources[8] state that Pythagoras learned mathematics from the Babylonians. Much earlier sources[9] state that Thales and Pythagoras traveled and studied in Egypt.

Euclid IX 21–34 is very probably Pythagorean;[10] it is very simple material ("odd times even is even", "if an odd number measures [= divides] an even number, then it also measures [= divides] half of it"), but it is all that is needed to prove that {\displaystyle {\sqrt {2}}}{\sqrt {2}} is irrational.[11] Pythagorean mystics gave great importance to the odd and the even.[12] The discovery that {\displaystyle {\sqrt {2}}}{\sqrt {2}} is irrational is credited to the early Pythagoreans (pre-Theodorus).[13] By revealing (in modern terms) that numbers could be irrational, this discovery seems to have provoked the first foundational crisis in mathematical history; its proof or its divulgation are sometimes credited to Hippasus, who was expelled or split from the Pythagorean sect.[14] This forced a distinction between numbers (integers and the rationals—the subjects of arithmetic), on the one hand, and lengths and proportions (which we would identify with real numbers, whether rational or not), on the other hand.

The Pythagorean tradition spoke also of so-called polygonal or figurate numbers.[15] While square numbers, cubic numbers, etc., are seen now as more natural than triangular numbers, pentagonal numbers, etc., the study of the sums of triangular and pentagonal numbers would prove fruitful in the early modern period (17th to early 19th century).

We know of no clearly arithmetical material in ancient Egyptian or Vedic sources, though there is some algebra in both. The Chinese remainder theorem appears as an exercise [16] in Sunzi Suanjing (3rd, 4th or 5th century CE.)[17] (There is one important step glossed over in Sunzi's solution:[note 4] it is the problem that was later solved by Āryabhaṭa's Kuṭṭaka – see below.)

There is also some numerical mysticism in Chinese mathematics,[note 5] but, unlike that of the Pythagoreans, it seems to have led nowhere. Like the Pythagoreans' perfect numbers, magic squares have passed from superstition into recreation.

Classical Greece and the early Hellenistic period
Further information: Ancient Greek mathematics
Aside from a few fragments, the mathematics of Classical Greece is known to us either through the reports of contemporary non-mathematicians or through mathematical works from the early Hellenistic period.[18] In the case of number theory, this means, by and large, Plato and Euclid, respectively.

While Asian mathematics influenced Greek and Hellenistic learning, it seems to be the case that Greek mathematics is also an indigenous tradition.

Eusebius, PE X, chapter 4 mentions of Pythagoras:

"In fact the said Pythagoras, while busily studying the wisdom of each nation, visited Babylon, and Egypt, and all Persia, being instructed by the Magi and the priests: and in addition to these he is related to have studied under the Brahmans (these are Indian philosophers); and from some he gathered astrology, from others geometry, and arithmetic and music from others, and different things from different nations, and only from the wise men of Greece did he get nothing, wedded as they were to a poverty and dearth of wisdom: so on the contrary he himself became the author of instruction to the Greeks in the learning which he had procured from abroad."[19]

Aristotle claimed that the philosophy of Plato closely followed the teachings of the Pythagoreans,[20] and Cicero repeats this claim: Platonem ferunt didicisse Pythagorea omnia ("They say Plato learned all things Pythagorean").[21]

Plato had a keen interest in mathematics, and distinguished clearly between arithmetic and calculation. (By arithmetic he meant, in part, theorising on number, rather than what arithmetic or number theory have come to mean.) It is through one of Plato's dialogues—namely, Theaetetus—that we know that Theodorus had proven that {\displaystyle {\sqrt {3}},{\sqrt {5}},\dots ,{\sqrt {17}}}{\sqrt  {3}},{\sqrt  {5}},\dots ,{\sqrt  {17}} are irrational. Theaetetus was, like Plato, a disciple of Theodorus's; he worked on distinguishing different kinds of incommensurables, and was thus arguably a pioneer in the study of number systems. (Book X of Euclid's Elements is described by Pappus as being largely based on Theaetetus's work.)

Euclid devoted part of his Elements to prime numbers and divisibility, topics that belong unambiguously to number theory and are basic to it (Books VII to IX of Euclid's Elements). In particular, he gave an algorithm for computing the greatest common divisor of two numbers (the Euclidean algorithm; Elements, Prop. VII.2) and the first known proof of the infinitude of primes (Elements, Prop. IX.20).

In 1773, Lessing published an epigram he had found in a manuscript during his work as a librarian; it claimed to be a letter sent by Archimedes to Eratosthenes.[22][23] The epigram proposed what has become known as Archimedes's cattle problem; its solution (absent from the manuscript) requires solving an indeterminate quadratic equation (which reduces to what would later be misnamed Pell's equation). As far as we know, such equations were first successfully treated by the Indian school. It is not known whether Archimedes himself had a method of solution.

Diophantus

Title page of the 1621 edition of Diophantus's Arithmetica, translated into Latin by Claude Gaspard Bachet de Méziriac.
Very little is known about Diophantus of Alexandria; he probably lived in the third century CE, that is, about five hundred years after Euclid. Six out of the thirteen books of Diophantus's Arithmetica survive in the original Greek; four more books survive in an Arabic translation. The Arithmetica is a collection of worked-out problems where the task is invariably to find rational solutions to a system of polynomial equations, usually of the form {\displaystyle f(x,y)=z^{2}}f(x,y)=z^{2} or {\displaystyle f(x,y,z)=w^{2}}f(x,y,z)=w^{2}. Thus, nowadays, we speak of Diophantine equations when we speak of polynomial equations to which rational or integer solutions must be found.

One may say that Diophantus was studying rational points, that is, points whose coordinates are rational—on curves and algebraic varieties; however, unlike the Greeks of the Classical period, who did what we would now call basic algebra in geometrical terms, Diophantus did what we would now call basic algebraic geometry in purely algebraic terms. In modern language, what Diophantus did was to find rational parametrizations of varieties; that is, given an equation of the form (say) {\displaystyle f(x_{1},x_{2},x_{3})=0}f(x_{1},x_{2},x_{3})=0, his aim was to find (in essence) three rational functions {\displaystyle g_{1},g_{2},g_{3}}g_{1},g_{2},g_{3} such that, for all values of {\displaystyle r}r and {\displaystyle s}s, setting {\displaystyle x_{i}=g_{i}(r,s)}x_{i}=g_{i}(r,s) for {\displaystyle i=1,2,3}i=1,2,3 gives a solution to {\displaystyle f(x_{1},x_{2},x_{3})=0.}f(x_{1},x_{2},x_{3})=0.

Diophantus also studied the equations of some non-rational curves, for which no rational parametrisation is possible. He managed to find some rational points on these curves (elliptic curves, as it happens, in what seems to be their first known occurrence) by means of what amounts to a tangent construction: translated into coordinate geometry (which did not exist in Diophantus's time), his method would be visualised as drawing a tangent to a curve at a known rational point, and then finding the other point of intersection of the tangent with the curve; that other point is a new rational point. (Diophantus also resorted to what could be called a special case of a secant construction.)

While Diophantus was concerned largely with rational solutions, he assumed some results on integer numbers, in particular that every integer is the sum of four squares (though he never stated as much explicitly).

Āryabhaṭa, Brahmagupta, Bhāskara
While Greek astronomy probably influenced Indian learning, to the point of introducing trigonometry,[24] it seems to be the case that Indian mathematics is otherwise an indigenous tradition;[25] in particular, there is no evidence that Euclid's Elements reached India before the 18th century.[26]

Āryabhaṭa (476–550 CE) showed that pairs of simultaneous congruences {\displaystyle n\equiv a_{1}{\bmod {m}}_{1}}{\displaystyle n\equiv a_{1}{\bmod {m}}_{1}}, {\displaystyle n\equiv a_{2}{\bmod {m}}_{2}}{\displaystyle n\equiv a_{2}{\bmod {m}}_{2}} could be solved by a method he called kuṭṭaka, or pulveriser;[27] this is a procedure close to (a generalisation of) the Euclidean algorithm, which was probably discovered independently in India.[28] Āryabhaṭa seems to have had in mind applications to astronomical calculations.[24]

Brahmagupta (628 CE) started the systematic study of indefinite quadratic equations—in particular, the Pell equation, in which Archimedes may have first been interested, and which did not start to be solved in the West until the time of Fermat and Euler. Later Sanskrit authors would follow, using Brahmagupta's technical terminology. A general procedure (the chakravala, or "cyclic method") for solving Pell's equation was finally found by Jayadeva (cited in the eleventh century; his work is otherwise lost); the earliest surviving exposition appears in Bhāskara II's Bīja-gaṇita (twelfth century).[29]

Indian mathematics remained largely unknown in Europe until the late eighteenth century;[30] Brahmagupta and Bhāskara's work was translated into English in 1817 by Henry Colebrooke.[31]

Arithmetic in the Islamic golden age
Further information: Mathematics in medieval Islam

Al-Haytham seen by the West: frontispice of Selenographia, showing Alhasen [sic] representing knowledge through reason, and Galileo representing knowledge through the senses.
In the early ninth century, the caliph Al-Ma'mun ordered translations of many Greek mathematical works and at least one Sanskrit work (the Sindhind, which may [32] or may not[33] be Brahmagupta's Brāhmasphuṭasiddhānta). Diophantus's main work, the Arithmetica, was translated into Arabic by Qusta ibn Luqa (820–912). Part of the treatise al-Fakhri (by al-Karajī, 953 – ca. 1029) builds on it to some extent. According to Rashed Roshdi, Al-Karajī's contemporary Ibn al-Haytham knew[34] what would later be called Wilson's theorem.

Western Europe in the Middle Ages
Other than a treatise on squares in arithmetic progression by Fibonacci—who traveled and studied in north Africa and Constantinople—no number theory to speak of was done in western Europe during the Middle Ages. Matters started to change in Europe in the late Renaissance, thanks to a renewed study of the works of Greek antiquity. A catalyst was the textual emendation and translation into Latin of Diophantus' Arithmetica.[35]

Early modern number theory
Fermat

Pierre de Fermat
Pierre de Fermat (1607–1665) never published his writings; in particular, his work on number theory is contained almost entirely in letters to mathematicians and in private marginal notes.[36] In his notes and letters, he scarcely wrote any proofs - he had no models in the area.[37]

Over his lifetime, Fermat made the following contributions to the field:

One of Fermat's first interests was perfect numbers (which appear in Euclid, Elements IX) and amicable numbers;[note 6] these topics led him to work on integer divisors, which were from the beginning among the subjects of the correspondence (1636 onwards) that put him in touch with the mathematical community of the day.[38]
In 1638, Fermat claimed, without proof, that all whole numbers can be expressed as the sum of four squares or fewer.[39]
Fermat's little theorem (1640):[40] if a is not divisible by a prime p, then {\displaystyle a^{p-1}\equiv 1{\bmod {p}}.}{\displaystyle a^{p-1}\equiv 1{\bmod {p}}.}[note 7]
If a and b are coprime, then {\displaystyle a^{2}+b^{2}}a^2 + b^2 is not divisible by any prime congruent to −1 modulo 4;[41] and every prime congruent to 1 modulo 4 can be written in the form {\displaystyle a^{2}+b^{2}}a^2 + b^2.[42] These two statements also date from 1640; in 1659, Fermat stated to Huygens that he had proven the latter statement by the method of infinite descent.[43]
In 1657, Fermat posed the problem of solving {\displaystyle x^{2}-Ny^{2}=1}x^{2}-Ny^{2}=1 as a challenge to English mathematicians. The problem was solved in a few months by Wallis and Brouncker.[44] Fermat considered their solution valid, but pointed out they had provided an algorithm without a proof (as had Jayadeva and Bhaskara, though Fermat wasn't aware of this). He stated that a proof could be found by infinite descent.
Fermat stated and proved (by infinite descent) in the appendix to Observations on Diophantus (Obs. XLV)[45] that {\displaystyle x^{4}+y^{4}=z^{4}}x^{{4}}+y^{{4}}=z^{{4}} has no non-trivial solutions in the integers. Fermat also mentioned to his correspondents that {\displaystyle x^{3}+y^{3}=z^{3}}x^{3}+y^{3}=z^{3} has no non-trivial solutions, and that this could also be proven by infinite descent.[46] The first known proof is due to Euler (1753; indeed by infinite descent).[47]
Fermat claimed ("Fermat's last theorem") to have shown there are no solutions to {\displaystyle x^{n}+y^{n}=z^{n}}x^{n}+y^{n}=z^{n} for all {\displaystyle n\geq 3}n\geq 3; this claim appears in his annotations in the margins of his copy of Diophantus.
Euler

Leonhard Euler
The interest of Leonhard Euler (1707–1783) in number theory was first spurred in 1729, when a friend of his, the amateur[note 8] Goldbach, pointed him towards some of Fermat's work on the subject.[48][49] This has been called the "rebirth" of modern number theory,[50] after Fermat's relative lack of success in getting his contemporaries' attention for the subject.[51] Euler's work on number theory includes the following:[52]

Proofs for Fermat's statements. This includes Fermat's little theorem (generalised by Euler to non-prime moduli); the fact that {\displaystyle p=x^{2}+y^{2}}p=x^{2}+y^{2} if and only if {\displaystyle p\equiv 1{\bmod {4}}}{\displaystyle p\equiv 1{\bmod {4}}}; initial work towards a proof that every integer is the sum of four squares (the first complete proof is by Joseph-Louis Lagrange (1770), soon improved by Euler himself[53]); the lack of non-zero integer solutions to {\displaystyle x^{4}+y^{4}=z^{2}}x^{4}+y^{4}=z^{2} (implying the case n=4 of Fermat's last theorem, the case n=3 of which Euler also proved by a related method).
Pell's equation, first misnamed by Euler.[54] He wrote on the link between continued fractions and Pell's equation.[55]
First steps towards analytic number theory. In his work of sums of four squares, partitions, pentagonal numbers, and the distribution of prime numbers, Euler pioneered the use of what can be seen as analysis (in particular, infinite series) in number theory. Since he lived before the development of complex analysis, most of his work is restricted to the formal manipulation of power series. He did, however, do some very notable (though not fully rigorous) early work on what would later be called the Riemann zeta function.[56]
Quadratic forms. Following Fermat's lead, Euler did further research on the question of which primes can be expressed in the form {\displaystyle x^{2}+Ny^{2}}x^{2}+Ny^{2}, some of it prefiguring quadratic reciprocity.[57] [58][59]
Diophantine equations. Euler worked on some Diophantine equations of genus 0 and 1.[60][61] In particular, he studied Diophantus's work; he tried to systematise it, but the time was not yet ripe for such an endeavour—algebraic geometry was still in its infancy.[62] He did notice there was a connection between Diophantine problems and elliptic integrals,[62] whose study he had himself initiated.
Lagrange, Legendre, and Gauss

Carl Friedrich Gauss's Disquisitiones Arithmeticae, first edition
Joseph-Louis Lagrange (1736–1813) was the first to give full proofs of some of Fermat's and Euler's work and observations—for instance, the four-square theorem and the basic theory of the misnamed "Pell's equation" (for which an algorithmic solution was found by Fermat and his contemporaries, and also by Jayadeva and Bhaskara II before them.) He also studied quadratic forms in full generality (as opposed to {\displaystyle mX^{2}+nY^{2}}mX^{2}+nY^{2})—defining their equivalence relation, showing how to put them in reduced form, etc.

Adrien-Marie Legendre (1752–1833) was the first to state the law of quadratic reciprocity. He also conjectured what amounts to the prime number theorem and Dirichlet's theorem on arithmetic progressions. He gave a full treatment of the equation {\displaystyle ax^{2}+by^{2}+cz^{2}=0}ax^{2}+by^{2}+cz^{2}=0[63] and worked on quadratic forms along the lines later developed fully by Gauss.[64] In his old age, he was the first to prove "Fermat's last theorem" for {\displaystyle n=5}n=5 (completing work by Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet, and crediting both him and Sophie Germain).[65]


Carl Friedrich Gauss
In his Disquisitiones Arithmeticae (1798), Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777–1855) proved the law of quadratic reciprocity and developed the theory of quadratic forms (in particular, defining their composition). He also introduced some basic notation (congruences) and devoted a section to computational matters, including primality tests.[66] The last section of the Disquisitiones established a link between roots of unity and number theory:

The theory of the division of the circle...which is treated in sec. 7 does not belong by itself to arithmetic, but its principles can only be drawn from higher arithmetic.[67]

In this way, Gauss arguably made a first foray towards both Évariste Galois's work and algebraic number theory.

Maturity and division into subfields

Ernst Kummer

Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet
Starting early in the nineteenth century, the following developments gradually took place:

The rise to self-consciousness of number theory (or higher arithmetic) as a field of study.[68]
The development of much of modern mathematics necessary for basic modern number theory: complex analysis, group theory, Galois theory—accompanied by greater rigor in analysis and abstraction in algebra.
The rough subdivision of number theory into its modern subfields—in particular, analytic and algebraic number theory.
Algebraic number theory may be said to start with the study of reciprocity and cyclotomy, but truly came into its own with the development of abstract algebra and early ideal theory and valuation theory; see below. A conventional starting point for analytic number theory is Dirichlet's theorem on arithmetic progressions (1837),[69] [70] whose proof introduced L-functions and involved some asymptotic analysis and a limiting process on a real variable.[71] The first use of analytic ideas in number theory actually goes back to Euler (1730s),[72] [73] who used formal power series and non-rigorous (or implicit) limiting arguments. The use of complex analysis in number theory comes later: the work of Bernhard Riemann (1859) on the zeta function is the canonical starting point;[74] Jacobi's four-square theorem (1839), which predates it, belongs to an initially different strand that has by now taken a leading role in analytic number theory (modular forms).[75]

The history of each subfield is briefly addressed in its own section below; see the main article of each subfield for fuller treatments. Many of the most interesting questions in each area remain open and are being actively worked on.

Main subdivisions
Elementary tools
The term elementary generally denotes a method that does not use complex analysis. For example, the prime number theorem was first proven using complex analysis in 1896, but an elementary proof was found only in 1949 by Erdős and Selberg.[76] The term is somewhat ambiguous: for example, proofs based on complex Tauberian theorems (for example, Wiener–Ikehara) are often seen as quite enlightening but not elementary, in spite of using Fourier analysis, rather than complex analysis as such. Here as elsewhere, an elementary proof may be longer and more difficult for most readers than a non-elementary one.


Number theorists Paul Erdős and Terence Tao in 1985, when Erdős was 72 and Tao was 10.
Number theory has the reputation of being a field many of whose results can be stated to the layperson. At the same time, the proofs of these results are not particularly accessible, in part because the range of tools they use is, if anything, unusually broad within mathematics.[77]

Analytic number theory
Main article: Analytic number theory

Riemann zeta function ζ(s) in the complex plane. The color of a point s gives the value of ζ(s): dark colors denote values close to zero and hue gives the value's argument.

The action of the modular group on the upper half plane. The region in grey is the standard fundamental domain.
Analytic number theory may be defined

in terms of its tools, as the study of the integers by means of tools from real and complex analysis;[69] or
in terms of its concerns, as the study within number theory of estimates on size and density, as opposed to identities.[78]
Some subjects generally considered to be part of analytic number theory, for example, sieve theory,[note 9] are better covered by the second rather than the first definition: some of sieve theory, for instance, uses little analysis,[note 10] yet it does belong to analytic number theory.

The following are examples of problems in analytic number theory: the prime number theorem, the Goldbach conjecture (or the twin prime conjecture, or the Hardy–Littlewood conjectures), the Waring problem and the Riemann hypothesis. Some of the most important tools of analytic number theory are the circle method, sieve methods and L-functions (or, rather, the study of their properties). The theory of modular forms (and, more generally, automorphic forms) also occupies an increasingly central place in the toolbox of analytic number theory.[79]

One may ask analytic questions about algebraic numbers, and use analytic means to answer such questions; it is thus that algebraic and analytic number theory intersect. For example, one may define prime ideals (generalizations of prime numbers in the field of algebraic numbers) and ask how many prime ideals there are up to a certain size. This question can be answered by means of an examination of Dedekind zeta functions, which are generalizations of the Riemann zeta function, a key analytic object at the roots of the subject.[80] This is an example of a general procedure in analytic number theory: deriving information about the distribution of a sequence (here, prime ideals or prime numbers) from the analytic behavior of an appropriately constructed complex-valued function.[81]

Algebraic number theory
Main article: Algebraic number theory
An algebraic number is any complex number that is a solution to some polynomial equation {\displaystyle f(x)=0}f(x)=0 with rational coefficients; for example, every solution {\displaystyle x}x of {\displaystyle x^{5}+(11/2)x^{3}-7x^{2}+9=0}x^{5}+(11/2)x^{3}-7x^{2}+9=0 (say) is an algebraic number. Fields of algebraic numbers are also called algebraic number fields, or shortly number fields. Algebraic number theory studies algebraic number fields.[82] Thus, analytic and algebraic number theory can and do overlap: the former is defined by its methods, the latter by its objects of study.

It could be argued that the simplest kind of number fields (viz., quadratic fields) were already studied by Gauss, as the discussion of quadratic forms in Disquisitiones arithmeticae can be restated in terms of ideals and norms in quadratic fields. (A quadratic field consists of all numbers of the form {\displaystyle a+b{\sqrt {d}}}a+b{\sqrt  {d}}, where {\displaystyle a}a and {\displaystyle b}b are rational numbers and {\displaystyle d}d is a fixed rational number whose square root is not rational.) For that matter, the 11th-century chakravala method amounts—in modern terms—to an algorithm for finding the units of a real quadratic number field. However, neither Bhāskara nor Gauss knew of number fields as such.

The grounds of the subject as we know it were set in the late nineteenth century, when ideal numbers, the theory of ideals and valuation theory were developed; these are three complementary ways of dealing with the lack of unique factorisation in algebraic number fields. (For example, in the field generated by the rationals and {\displaystyle {\sqrt {-5}}}{\sqrt  {-5}}, the number {\displaystyle 6}6 can be factorised both as {\displaystyle 6=2\cdot 3}6=2\cdot 3 and {\displaystyle 6=(1+{\sqrt {-5}})(1-{\sqrt {-5}})}6=(1+{\sqrt  {-5}})(1-{\sqrt  {-5}}); all of {\displaystyle 2}2, {\displaystyle 3}3, {\displaystyle 1+{\sqrt {-5}}}1+{\sqrt  {-5}} and {\displaystyle 1-{\sqrt {-5}}}1-{\sqrt  {-5}} are irreducible, and thus, in a naïve sense, analogous to primes among the integers.) The initial impetus for the development of ideal numbers (by Kummer) seems to have come from the study of higher reciprocity laws,[83] that is, generalisations of quadratic reciprocity.

Number fields are often studied as extensions of smaller number fields: a field L is said to be an extension of a field K if L contains K. (For example, the complex numbers C are an extension of the reals R, and the reals R are an extension of the rationals Q.) Classifying the possible extensions of a given number field is a difficult and partially open problem. Abelian extensions—that is, extensions L of K such that the Galois group[note 11] Gal(L/K) of L over K is an abelian group—are relatively well understood. Their classification was the object of the programme of class field theory, which was initiated in the late 19th century (partly by Kronecker and Eisenstein) and carried out largely in 1900–1950.

An example of an active area of research in algebraic number theory is Iwasawa theory. The Langlands program, one of the main current large-scale research plans in mathematics, is sometimes described as an attempt to generalise class field theory to non-abelian extensions of number fields.

Diophantine geometry
Main article: Diophantine geometry
The central problem of Diophantine geometry is to determine when a Diophantine equation has solutions, and if it does, how many. The approach taken is to think of the solutions of an equation as a geometric object.

For example, an equation in two variables defines a curve in the plane. More generally, an equation, or system of equations, in two or more variables defines a curve, a surface or some other such object in n-dimensional space. In Diophantine geometry, one asks whether there are any rational points (points all of whose coordinates are rationals) or integral points (points all of whose coordinates are integers) on the curve or surface. If there are any such points, the next step is to ask how many there are and how they are distributed. A basic question in this direction is if there are finitely or infinitely many rational points on a given curve (or surface).

In the Pythagorean equation {\displaystyle x^{2}+y^{2}=1,}{\displaystyle x^{2}+y^{2}=1,} we would like to study its rational solutions, that is, its solutions {\displaystyle (x,y)}(x,y) such that x and y are both rational. This is the same as asking for all integer solutions to {\displaystyle a^{2}+b^{2}=c^{2}}a^{2}+b^{2}=c^{2}; any solution to the latter equation gives us a solution {\displaystyle x=a/c}x = a/c, {\displaystyle y=b/c}y = b/c to the former. It is also the same as asking for all points with rational coordinates on the curve described by {\displaystyle x^{2}+y^{2}=1}x^2 + y^2 = 1. (This curve happens to be a circle of radius 1 around the origin.)


Two examples of an elliptic curve, that is, a curve of genus 1 having at least one rational point. (Either graph can be seen as a slice of a torus in four-dimensional space.)
The rephrasing of questions on equations in terms of points on curves turns out to be felicitous. The finiteness or not of the number of rational or integer points on an algebraic curve—that is, rational or integer solutions to an equation {\displaystyle f(x,y)=0}f(x,y)=0, where {\displaystyle f}f is a polynomial in two variables—turns out to depend crucially on the genus of the curve. The genus can be defined as follows:[note 12] allow the variables in {\displaystyle f(x,y)=0}f(x,y)=0 to be complex numbers; then {\displaystyle f(x,y)=0}f(x,y)=0 defines a 2-dimensional surface in (projective) 4-dimensional space (since two complex variables can be decomposed into four real variables, that is, four dimensions). If we count the number of (doughnut) holes in the surface; we call this number the genus of {\displaystyle f(x,y)=0}f(x,y)=0. Other geometrical notions turn out to be just as crucial.

There is also the closely linked area of Diophantine approximations: given a number {\displaystyle x}x, then finding how well can it be approximated by rationals. (We are looking for approximations that are good relative to the amount of space that it takes to write the rational: call {\displaystyle a/q}a/q (with {\displaystyle \gcd(a,q)=1}\gcd(a,q)=1) a good approximation to {\displaystyle x}x if {\displaystyle |x-a/q|<{\frac {1}{q^{c}}}}|x-a/q|<{\frac  {1}{q^{c}}}, where {\displaystyle c}c is large.) This question is of special interest if {\displaystyle x}x is an algebraic number. If {\displaystyle x}x cannot be well approximated, then some equations do not have integer or rational solutions. Moreover, several concepts (especially that of height) turn out to be critical both in Diophantine geometry and in the study of Diophantine approximations. This question is also of special interest in transcendental number theory: if a number can be better approximated than any algebraic number, then it is a transcendental number. It is by this argument that π and e have been shown to be transcendental.

Diophantine geometry should not be confused with the geometry of numbers, which is a collection of graphical methods for answering certain questions in algebraic number theory. Arithmetic geometry, however, is a contemporary term for much the same domain as that covered by the term Diophantine geometry. The term arithmetic geometry is arguably used most often when one wishes to emphasise the connections to modern algebraic geometry (as in, for instance, Faltings's theorem) rather than to techniques in Diophantine approximations.

Other subfields
The areas below date from no earlier than the mid-twentieth century, even if they are based on older material. For example, as is explained below, the matter of algorithms in number theory is very old, in some sense older than the concept of proof; at the same time, the modern study of computability dates only from the 1930s and 1940s, and computational complexity theory from the 1970s.

Probabilistic number theory
Main article: Probabilistic number theory
Much of probabilistic number theory can be seen as an important special case of the study of variables that are almost, but not quite, mutually independent. For example, the event that a random integer between one and a million be divisible by two and the event that it be divisible by three are almost independent, but not quite.

It is sometimes said that probabilistic combinatorics uses the fact that whatever happens with probability greater than {\displaystyle 0}{\displaystyle 0} must happen sometimes; one may say with equal justice that many applications of probabilistic number theory hinge on the fact that whatever is unusual must be rare. If certain algebraic objects (say, rational or integer solutions to certain equations) can be shown to be in the tail of certain sensibly defined distributions, it follows that there must be few of them; this is a very concrete non-probabilistic statement following from a probabilistic one.

At times, a non-rigorous, probabilistic approach leads to a number of heuristic algorithms and open problems, notably Cramér's conjecture.

Arithmetic combinatorics
Main articles: Arithmetic combinatorics and Additive number theory
If we begin from a fairly "thick" infinite set {\displaystyle A}A, does it contain many elements in arithmetic progression: {\displaystyle a}a, {\displaystyle a+b,a+2b,a+3b,\ldots ,a+10b}{\displaystyle a+b,a+2b,a+3b,\ldots ,a+10b}, say? Should it be possible to write large integers as sums of elements of {\displaystyle A}A?

These questions are characteristic of arithmetic combinatorics. This is a presently coalescing field; it subsumes additive number theory (which concerns itself with certain very specific sets {\displaystyle A}A of arithmetic significance, such as the primes or the squares) and, arguably, some of the geometry of numbers, together with some rapidly developing new material. Its focus on issues of growth and distribution accounts in part for its developing links with ergodic theory, finite group theory, model theory, and other fields. The term additive combinatorics is also used; however, the sets {\displaystyle A}A being studied need not be sets of integers, but rather subsets of non-commutative groups, for which the multiplication symbol, not the addition symbol, is traditionally used; they can also be subsets of rings, in which case the growth of {\displaystyle A+A}A+A and {\displaystyle A}A·{\displaystyle A}A may be compared.

Computational number theory
Main article: Computational number theory

A Lehmer sieve, which is a primitive digital computer once used for finding primes and solving simple Diophantine equations.
While the word algorithm goes back only to certain readers of al-Khwārizmī, careful descriptions of methods of solution are older than proofs: such methods (that is, algorithms) are as old as any recognisable mathematics—ancient Egyptian, Babylonian, Vedic, Chinese—whereas proofs appeared only with the Greeks of the classical period.

An interesting early case is that of what we now call the Euclidean algorithm. In its basic form (namely, as an algorithm for computing the greatest common divisor) it appears as Proposition 2 of Book VII in Elements, together with a proof of correctness. However, in the form that is often used in number theory (namely, as an algorithm for finding integer solutions to an equation {\displaystyle ax+by=c}ax+by=c, or, what is the same, for finding the quantities whose existence is assured by the Chinese remainder theorem) it first appears in the works of Āryabhaṭa (5th–6th century CE) as an algorithm called kuṭṭaka ("pulveriser"), without a proof of correctness.

There are two main questions: "Can we compute this?" and "Can we compute it rapidly?" Anyone can test whether a number is prime or, if it is not, split it into prime factors; doing so rapidly is another matter. We now know fast algorithms for testing primality, but, in spite of much work (both theoretical and practical), no truly fast algorithm for factoring.

The difficulty of a computation can be useful: modern protocols for encrypting messages (for example, RSA) depend on functions that are known to all, but whose inverses are known only to a chosen few, and would take one too long a time to figure out on one's own. For example, these functions can be such that their inverses can be computed only if certain large integers are factorized. While many difficult computational problems outside number theory are known, most working encryption protocols nowadays are based on the difficulty of a few number-theoretical problems.

Some things may not be computable at all; in fact, this can be proven in some instances. For instance, in 1970, it was proven, as a solution to Hilbert's 10th problem, that there is no Turing machine which can solve all Diophantine equations.[84] In particular, this means that, given a computably enumerable set of axioms, there are Diophantine equations for which there is no proof, starting from the axioms, of whether the set of equations has or does not have integer solutions. (We would necessarily be speaking of Diophantine equations for which there are no integer solutions, since, given a Diophantine equation with at least one solution, the solution itself provides a proof of the fact that a solution exists. We cannot prove that a particular Diophantine equation is of this kind, since this would imply that it has no solutions.)

Applications
[icon]	
This section needs expansion with:
Modern applications of Number theory. You can help by adding to it. (March 2016)
The number-theorist Leonard Dickson (1874–1954) said "Thank God that number theory is unsullied by any application". Such a view is no longer applicable to number theory.[85] In 1974, Donald Knuth said "...virtually every theorem in elementary number theory arises in a natural, motivated way in connection with the problem of making computers do high-speed numerical calculations".[86] Elementary number theory is taught in discrete mathematics courses for computer scientists; on the other hand, number theory also has applications to the continuous in numerical analysis.[87] As well as the well-known applications to cryptography, there are also applications to many other areas of mathematics.[88][89][specify]

Prizes
The American Mathematical Society awards the Cole Prize in Number Theory. Moreover number theory is one of the three mathematical subdisciplines rewarded by the Fermat Prize.1 (one, also called unit, and unity) is a number, and a numerical digit used to represent that number in numerals. It represents a single entity, the unit of counting or measurement. For example, a line segment of unit length is a line segment of length 1. 1 is the first and smallest positive integer. It is also sometimes considered the first of the infinite sequence of natural numbers, followed by 2, although by other definitions 1 is the second natural number, following 0. The fundamental mathematical property of 1 is to be a multiplicative identity, meaning that any number multiplied by 1 returns that number. Most if not all properties of 1 can be deduced from this. In advanced mathematics, a multiplicative identity is often denoted 1, even if it is not a number. 1 is by convention not considered a prime number; although universal today, this was a matter of some controversy until the mid-20th century. The word one can be used as a noun, an adjective and a pronoun. It comes from the English word an, which comes from the Proto-Germanic root *ainaz. The Proto-Germanic root *ainaz comes from the Proto-Indo-European root *oi-no-. Compare the Proto-Germanic root *ainaz to Old Frisian an, Gothic ains, Danish en, Dutch een, German eins and Old Norse einn. Compare the Proto-Indo-European root *oi-no- (which means "one, single") to Greek oinos (which means "ace" on dice), Latin unus (one), Old Persian aivam, Old Church Slavonic -inu and ino-, Lithuanian vienas, Old Irish oin and Breton un (one). One, sometimes referred to as unity, is the first non-zero natural number. It is thus the integer after zero. Any number multiplied by one remains that number, as one is the identity for multiplication. As a result, 1 is its own factorial, its own square and square root, its own cube and cube root, and so on. One is also the result of the empty product, as any number multiplied by one is itself. It is also the only natural number that is neither composite nor prime with respect to division, but is instead considered a unit (meaning of ring theory). The glyph used today in the Western world to represent the number 1, a vertical line, often with a serif at the top and sometimes a short horizontal line at the bottom, traces its roots back to the Brahmic script of ancient India, where it was a simple vertical line. It was transmitted to Europe via Arabic during the Middle Ages. In some countries, the serif at the top is sometimes extended into a long upstroke, sometimes as long as the vertical line, which can lead to confusion with the glyph for seven in other countries. Whereas the number 1 is written with a long upstroke, the number 7 has a horizontal stroke through the vertical line. Mathematically, 1 is: in arithmetic (algebra) and calculus, the natural number that follows 0 and the multiplicative identity element of the integers, real numbers and complex numbers; more generally, in algebra, the multiplicative identity (also called unity), usually of a group or a ring. Formalizations of the natural numbers have their own representations of 1. In the Peano axioms, 1 is the successor of 0. In Principia Mathematica, it is defined as the set of all singletons (sets with one element), and in the Von Neumann cardinal assignment of natural numbers, it is defined as the set {0}. In a multiplicative group or monoid, the identity element is sometimes denoted 1, but e (from the German Einheit, "unity") is also traditional. However, 1 is especially common for the multiplicative identity of a ring, i.e., when an addition and 0 are also present. When such a ring has characteristic n not equal to 0, the element called 1 has the property that n1 = 1n = 0 (where this 0 is the additive identity of the ring). Important examples are finite fields. By definition, 1 is the magnitude, absolute value, or norm of a unit complex number, unit vector, and a unit matrix (more usually called an identity matrix). Note that the term unit matrix is sometimes used to mean something quite different. By definition, 1 is the probability of an event that is almost certain to occur. In category theory, 1 is sometimes used to denote the terminal object of a category. In number theory, 1 is the value of Legendre's constant, which was introduced in 1808 by Adrien-Marie Legendre in expressing the asymptotic behavior of the prime-counting function. Legendre's constant was originally conjectured to be approximately 1.08366, but was proven to equal exactly 1 in 1899. Tallying is often referred to as "base 1", since only one mark – the tally itself – is needed. This is more formally referred to as a unary numeral system. Unlike base 2 or base 10, this is not a positional notation. Since the base 1 exponential function (1x) always equals 1, its inverse does not exist (which would be called the logarithm base 1 if it did exist). There are two ways to write the real number 1 as a recurring decimal: as 1.000..., and as 0.999.... 1 is the first figurate number of every kind, such as triangular number, pentagonal number and centered hexagonal number, to name just a few. In many mathematical and engineering problems, numeric values are typically normalized to fall within the unit interval from 0 to 1, where 1 usually represents the maximum possible value in the range of parameters. Likewise, vectors are often normalized into unit vectors (i.e., vectors of magnitude one), because these often have more desirable properties. Functions, too, are often normalized by the condition that they have integral one, maximum value one, or square integral one, depending on the application. Because of the multiplicative identity, if f(x) is a multiplicative function, then f(1) must be equal to 1. It is also the first and second number in the Fibonacci sequence (0 being the zeroth) and is the first number in many other mathematical sequences. The definition of a field requires that 1 must not be equal to 0. Thus, there are no fields of characteristic 1. Nevertheless, abstract algebra can consider the field with one element, which is not a singleton and is not a set at all. 1 is the most common leading digit in many sets of data, a consequence of Benford's law. 1 is the only known Tamagawa number for a simply connected algebraic group over a number field. 1 is by convention neither a prime number nor a composite number, but a unit (meaning of ring theory) like −1 and, in the Gaussian integers, i and −i. The fundamental theorem of arithmetic guarantees unique factorization over the integers only up to units. For example, 4 = 22, but if units are included, is also equal to, say, (−1)6 × 123 × 22, among infinitely many similar "factorizations". 1 appears to meet the naïve definition of a prime number, being evenly divisible only by 1 and itself (also 1). As such, some mathematicians considered it a prime number as late as the middle of the 20th century, but mathematical consensus has generally and since then universally been to exclude it for a variety of reasons (such as complicating the fundamental theorem of arithmetic and other theorems related to prime numbers). 1 is the only positive integer divisible by exactly one positive integer, whereas prime numbers are divisible by exactly two positive integers, composite numbers are divisible by more than two positive integers, and zero is divisible by all positive integers.Scientific notation is a way of expressing real numbers that are too large or too small to be conveniently written in decimal form. It may be referred to as scientific form or standard index form, or standard form in the UK. This base ten notation is commonly used by scientists, mathematicians, and engineers, in part because it can simplify certain arithmetic operations. On scientific calculators it is usually known as "SCI" display mode.

or m times ten raised to the power of n, where the exponent n is an integer, and the coefficient m is any real number. The integer n is called the order of magnitude and the real number m is called the significand or mantissa.[1] However, the term "mantissa" may cause confusion because it is the name of the fractional part of the common logarithm. If the significand is negative then a minus sign precedes m, as in ordinary decimal notation. In normalized notation, the exponent is chosen so that the absolute value (modulus) of the significand m is at least 1 but less than 10.

Decimal floating point is a computer arithmetic system closely related to scientific notation.

Any given real number can be written in the form m×10n in many ways: for example, 350 can be written as 3.5×102 or 35×101 or 350×100.

In normalized scientific notation (called "standard form" in the UK), the exponent n is chosen so that the absolute value of m remains at least one but less than ten (1 ≤ |m| < 10). Thus 350 is written as 3.5×102. This form allows easy comparison of numbers, as the exponent n gives the number's order of magnitude. It is the form that is required when using tables of common logarithms. In normalized notation, the exponent n is negative for a number with absolute value between 0 and 1 (e.g. 0.5 is written as 5×10−1). The 10 and exponent are often omitted when the exponent is 0.

Normalized scientific form is the typical form of expression of large numbers in many fields, unless an unnormalized form, such as engineering notation, is desired. Normalized scientific notation is often called exponential notation—although the latter term is more general and also applies when m is not restricted to the range 1 to 10 (as in engineering notation for instance) and to bases other than 10 (for example, 3.15×220).

Engineering notation (often named "ENG" display mode on scientific calculators) differs from normalized scientific notation in that the exponent n is restricted to multiples of 3. Consequently, the absolute value of m is in the range 1 ≤ |m| < 1000, rather than 1 ≤ |m| < 10. Though similar in concept, engineering notation is rarely called scientific notation. Engineering notation allows the numbers to explicitly match their corresponding SI prefixes, which facilitates reading and oral communication. For example, 12.5×10−9 m can be read as "twelve-point-five nanometres" and written as 12.5 nm, while its scientific notation equivalent 1.25×10−8 m would likely be read out as "one-point-two-five times ten-to-the-negative-eight metres".

A significant figure is a digit in a number that adds to its precision. This includes all nonzero numbers, zeroes between significant digits, and zeroes indicated to be significant. Leading and trailing zeroes are not significant because they exist only to show the scale of the number. Therefore, 1230400 usually has five significant figures: 1, 2, 3, 0, and 4; the final two zeroes serve only as placeholders and add no precision to the original number.

When a number is converted into normalized scientific notation, it is scaled down to a number between 1 and 10. All of the significant digits remain, but the place holding zeroes are no longer required. Thus 1230400 would become 1.2304×106. However, there is also the possibility that the number may be known to six or more significant figures, in which case the number would be shown as (for instance) 1.23040×106. Thus, an additional advantage of scientific notation is that the number of significant figures is clearer.

It is customary in scientific measurements to record all the definitely known digits from the measurements, and to estimate at least one additional digit if there is any information at all available to enable the observer to make an estimate. The resulting number contains more information than it would without that extra digit(s), and it (or they) may be considered a significant digit because it conveys some information leading to greater precision in measurements and in aggregations of measurements (adding them or multiplying them together).

Additional information about precision can be conveyed through additional notations. It is often useful to know how exact the final digit(s) are. For instance, the accepted value of the unit of elementary charge can properly be expressed as 1.6021766208(98)×10−19 C,[2] which is shorthand for (1.6021766208±0.0000000098)×10−19 C.

Most calculators and many computer programs present very large and very small results in scientific notation, typically invoked by a key labelled EXP (for exponent), EEX (for enter exponent), EE, EX, E, or ×10x depending on vendor and model. Because superscripted exponents like 107 cannot always be conveniently displayed, the letter E (or e) is often used to represent "times ten raised to the power of" (which would be written as "× 10n") and is followed by the value of the exponent; in other words, for any two real numbers m and n, the usage of "mEn" would indicate a value of m × 10n. In this usage the character e is not related to the mathematical constant e or the exponential function ex (a confusion that is unlikely if scientific notation is represented by a capital E). Although the E stands for exponent, the notation is usually referred to as (scientific) E notation rather than (scientific) exponential notation. The use of E notation facilitates data entry and readability in textual communication since it minimizes keystrokes, avoids reduced font sizes and provides a simpler and more concise display, but it is not encouraged in some publications.[3]

Scientific notation also enables simpler order-of-magnitude comparisons. A proton's mass is 0.0000000000000000000000000016726 kg. If written as 1.6726×10−27 kg, it is easier to compare this mass with that of an electron, given below. The order of magnitude of the ratio of the masses can be obtained by comparing the exponents instead of the more error-prone task of counting the leading zeros. In this case, −27 is larger than −31 and therefore the proton is roughly four orders of magnitude (10,000 times) more massive than the electron.

Scientific notation also avoids misunderstandings due to regional differences in certain quantifiers, such as billion, which might indicate either 109 or 1012.

In physics and astrophysics, the number of orders of magnitude between two numbers is sometimes referred to as "dex", a contraction of "decimal exponent" (see f.e. Chemical abundance ratios). For instance, if two numbers are within 1 dex of each other, then the ratio of the larger to the smaller number is less than 10. Fractional values can be used, so if within 0.5 dex, the ratio is less than 100.5, and so on.

In normalized scientific notation, in E notation, and in engineering notation, the space (which in typesetting may be represented by a normal width space or a thin space) that is allowed only before and after "×" or in front of "E" is sometimes omitted, though it is less common to do so before the alphabetical character.[22]

An electron's mass is about 0.000000000000000000000000000000910938356 kg.[23] In scientific notation, this is written 9.10938356×10−31 kg (in SI units).
The Earth's mass is about 5972400000000000000000000 kg.[24] In scientific notation, this is written 5.9724×1024 kg.
The Earth's circumference is approximately 40000000 m.[25] In scientific notation, this is 4×107 m. In engineering notation, this is written 40×106 m. In SI writing style, this may be written 40 Mm (40 megametres).
An inch is defined as exactly 25.4 mm. Quoting a value of 25.400 mm shows that the value is correct to the nearest micrometre. An approximated value with only two significant digits would be 2.5×101 mm instead. As there is no limit to the number of significant digits, the length of an inch could, if required, be written as (say) 2.54000000000×101 mm instead.
Countries that experience hyperinflation can experience a rapid decrease in the value of their fiat currency by about 1,000,000 percent or more in a single month; fiat currencies tend to lose their intrinsic value over time. In July 2008, the inflation rate of the Zimbabwean dollar reached 231 million percent; the approximated value with three significant figures would be 2.31×1012 percent.[26]7 (seven) is the natural number following 6 and preceding 8. It is a prime number, and is often considered lucky in Western culture, and is often seen as highly symbolic. Seven, the fourth prime number, is not only a Mersenne prime (since 23 − 1 = 7) but also a double Mersenne prime since the exponent, 3, is itself a Mersenne prime. It is also a Newman–Shanks–Williams prime, a Woodall prime, a factorial prime, a lucky prime, a happy number (happy prime), a safe prime (the only Mersenne safe prime), and the fourth Heegner number. Seven is the lowest natural number that cannot be represented as the sum of the squares of three integers. (See Lagrange's four-square theorem#Historical development.) Seven is the aliquot sum of one number, the cubic number 8 and is the base of the 7-aliquot tree. 7 is the only number D for which the equation 2n − D = x2 has more than two solutions for n and x natural. In particular, the equation 2n − 7 = x2 is known as the Ramanujan–Nagell equation. 7 is the only dimension, besides the familiar 3, in which a vector cross product can be defined. 7 is the lowest dimension of a known exotic sphere, although there may exist as yet unknown exotic smooth structures on the 4-dimensional sphere. 999,999 divided by 7 is exactly 142,857. Therefore, when a vulgar fraction with 7 in the denominator is converted to a decimal expansion, the result has the same six-digit repeating sequence after the decimal point, but the sequence can start with any of those six digits. For example, 1/7 = 0.142857 142857... and 2/7 = 0.285714 285714.... In fact, if one sorts the digits in the number 142,857 in ascending order, 124578, it is possible to know from which of the digits the decimal part of the number is going to begin with. The remainder of dividing any number by 7 will give the position in the sequence 124578 that the decimal part of the resulting number will start. For example, 628 ÷ 7 = 89+5/7; here 5 is the remainder, and would correspond to number 7 in the ranking of the ascending sequence. So in this case, 628 ÷ 7 = 89.714285. Another example, 5238 ÷ 7 = 748 + 2/7, hence the remainder is 2, and this corresponds to number 2 in the sequence. In this case, 5238 ÷ 7 = 748.285714. A seven-sided shape is a heptagon. The regular n-gons for n ≤ 6 can be constructed by compass and straightedge alone, but the regular heptagon cannot. Figurate numbers representing heptagons (including seven) are called heptagonal numbers. Seven is also a centered hexagonal number. Seven is the first integer reciprocal (multiplicative inverse) with infinitely repeating sexagesimal representation. There are seven frieze groups, the groups consisting of symmetries of the plane whose group of translations is isomorphic to the group of integers. There are seven fundamental types of catastrophes. When rolling two standard six-sided dice, seven has a 6 in 62 (or 1/6) probability of being rolled (1–6, 6–1, 2–5, 5–2, 3–4, or 4–3), the greatest of any number. The Millennium Prize Problems are seven problems in mathematics that were stated by the Clay Mathematics Institute in 2000. Currently, six of the problems remain unsolved. 7 is the last digit of Graham's number.70 (seventy) is the natural number following 69 and preceding 71. 70 is: a sphenic number because it factors as 3 distinct primes. a Pell number. the seventh pentagonal number. the fourth tridecagonal number. the fifth pentatope number. the number of ways to choose 4 objects out of 8 if order does not matter. This makes it a central binomial coefficient. the smallest weird number, a natural number that is abundant but not semiperfect. a palindromic number in bases 9 (779), 13 (5513) and 34 (2234). a Harshad number in bases 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15 and 16. an Erdős–Woods number, since it is possible to find sequences of 70 consecutive integers such that each inner member shares a factor with either the first or the last member. The sum of the first 24 squares starting from 1 is 702. This relates 70 to the Leech lattice and thus string theory.6 (six) is the natural number following 5 and preceding 7. It is a composite number and the smallest perfect number. 6 is the smallest positive integer which is neither a square number nor a prime number. Six is the second smallest composite number; its proper divisors are 1, 2 and 3. Since six equals the sum of its proper divisors, six is the smallest perfect number, Granville number, and ss a perfect number: 6 is related to the Mersenne prime 3, since 21(22 – 1) = 6. (The next perfect number is 28.) 6 is the only even perfect number that is not the sum of successive odd cubes. 6 is the root of the 6-aliquot tree, and is itself the aliquot sum of only one number; the square number, 25. Six is the only number that is both the sum and the product of three consecutive positive numbers. Unrelated to 6 being a perfect number, a Golomb ruler of length 6 is a "perfect ruler". Six is a congruent number. Six is the first discrete biprime (2 × 3) and the first member of the (2 × q) discrete biprime family. Six is a unitary perfect number, a primary pseudoperfect number, a harmonic divisor number and a superior highly composite number, the last to also be a primorial. There are no Graeco-Latin squares with order 6. If n is a natural number that is not 2 or 6, then there is a Graeco-Latin square with order n. There is not a prime p such that the multiplicative order of 2 modulo p is 6, that is, ordp(2) = 6. By Zsigmondy's theorem, if n is a natural number that is not 1 or 6, then there is a prime p such that ordp(2) = n. See A112927 for such p. The ring of integer of the sixth cyclotomic field Q(ζ6) , which is called Eisenstein integer, has 6 units: ±1, ±ω, ±ω2, where the smallest non-abelian group is the symmetric group S3 which has 3! = 6 elements. S6, with 720 elements, is the only finite symmetric group which has an outer automorphism. This automorphism allows us to construct a number of exceptional mathematical objects such as the S(5,6,12) Steiner system, the projective plane of order 4 and the Hoffman-Singleton graph. A closely related result is the following theorem: 6 is the only natural number n for which there is a construction of n isomorphic objects on an n-set A, invariant under all permutations of A, but not naturally in one-to-one correspondence with the elements of A. This can also be expressed category theoretically: consider the category whose objects are the n element sets and whose arrows are the bijections between the sets. This category has a non-trivial functor to itself only for n = 6. Six similar coins can be arranged around a central coin of the same radius so that each coin makes contact with the central one (and touches both its neighbors without a gap), but seven cannot be so arranged. This makes 6 the answer to the two-dimensional kissing number problem. The densest sphere packing of the plane is obtained by extending this pattern to the hexagonal lattice in which each circle touches just six others. 6 is the largest of the four all-Harshad numbers. A six-sided polygon is a hexagon, one of the three regular polygons capable of tiling the plane. Figurate numbers representing hexagons (including six) are called hexagonal numbers. Because 6 is the product of a power of 2 (namely 21) with nothing but distinct Fermat primes (specifically 3), a regular hexagon is a constructible polygon. Six is also an octahedral number. It is a triangular number and so is its square (36). There are six basic trigonometric functions. There are six convex regular polytopes in four dimensions. The six exponentials theorem guarantees (given the right conditions on the exponents) the transcendence of at least one of a set of exponentials. All primes above 3 are of the form 6n ± 1 for n ≥ 1.60 (sixty) is the natural number following 59 and preceding 61. Being three times 20, it is called "three score" in older literature. It is a composite number, with divisors 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12, 15, 20, 30, and 60, making it a highly composite number. Because it is the sum of its unitary divisors (excluding itself), it is a unitary perfect number, and it is an abundant number with an abundance of 48. Being ten times a perfect number, it is a semiperfect number. It is the smallest number divisible by the numbers 1 to 6: there is no smaller number divisible by the numbers 1 to 5. It is the smallest number with exactly 12 divisors. It is one of seven integers that have more divisors than any number less than twice itself (sequence A072938 in the OEIS), one of six that are also lowest common multiple of a consecutive set of integers from 1, and one of six that are divisors of every highly composite number higher than itself.(sequence A106037 in the OEIS) It is the sum of a pair of twin primes (29 + 31) and the sum of four consecutive primes (11 + 13 + 17 + 19). It is adjacent to two primes (59 and 61). It is the smallest number that is the sum of two odd primes in six ways. The smallest non-solvable group (A5) has order 60. There are four Archimedean solids with 60 vertices: the truncated icosahedron, the rhombicosidodecahedron, the snub dodecahedron, and the truncated dodecahedron. The skeletons of these polyhedra form 60-node vertex-transitive graphs. There are also two Archimedean solids with 60 edges: the snub cube and the icosidodecahedron. The skeleton of the icosidodecahedron forms a 60-edge symmetric graph. There are 60 one-sided hexominoes, the polyominoes made from six squares. In geometry, it is the number of seconds in a minute, and the number of minutes in a degree. In normal space, the three interior angles of an equilateral triangle each measure 60 degrees, adding up to 180 degrees. Because it is divisible by the sum of its digits in base 10, it is a Harshad number. A number system with base 60 is called sexagesimal (the original meaning of sexagesimal is sixtieth). It is the smallest positive integer that is written with only the smallest and the largest digit of base 2 (binary), base 3 (ternary) and base 4 (quaternary). 60 is also the product of the side lengths of the smallest whole number right triangle: 3, 4, 5, a type of Pythagorean triple.Subtraction is an arithmetic operation that represents the operation of removing objects from a collection. The result of a subtraction is called a difference. Subtraction is signified by the minus sign, −. For example, in the adjacent picture, there are 5 − 2 apples—meaning 5 apples with 2 taken away, which is a total of 3 apples. Therefore, the difference of 5 and 2 is 3, that is, 5 − 2 = 3. Subtraction represents removing or decreasing physical and abstract quantities using different kinds of objects including negative numbers, fractions, irrational numbers, vectors, decimals, functions, and matrices.

Subtraction follows several important patterns. It is anticommutative, meaning that changing the order changes the sign of the answer. It is also not associative, meaning that when one subtracts more than two numbers, the order in which subtraction is performed matters. Because 0 is the additive identity, subtraction of it does not change a number. Subtraction also obeys predictable rules concerning related operations such as addition and multiplication. All of these rules can be proven, starting with the subtraction of integers and generalizing up through the real numbers and beyond. General binary operations that continue these patterns are studied in abstract algebra.

Performing subtraction is one of the simplest numerical tasks. Subtraction of very small numbers is accessible to young children. In primary education, students are taught to subtract numbers in the decimal system, starting with single digits and progressively tackling more difficult problems.

In advanced algebra and in computer algebra, an expression involving subtraction like A − B is generally treated as a shorthand notation for the addition A + (−B). Thus, A − B contains two terms, namely A and −B. This allows an easier use of associativity and commutativity.

Subtraction is usually written using the minus sign "−" between the terms; that is, in infix notation. The result is expressed with an equals sign. For example,

{\displaystyle 2-1=1}2-1=1 (verbally, "two minus one equals one")
{\displaystyle 4-2=2}4-2=2 (verbally, "four minus two equals two")
{\displaystyle 6-3=3}6-3=3 (verbally, "six minus three equals three")
{\displaystyle 4-6=-2}4-6=-2 (verbally, "four minus six equals negative two")
There are also situations where subtraction is "understood" even though no symbol appears:

A column of two numbers, with the lower number in red, usually indicates that the lower number in the column is to be subtracted, with the difference written below, under a line. This is most common in accounting.
Formally, the number being subtracted is known as the subtrahend,[1][2] while the number it is subtracted from is the minuend.[1][2] The result is the difference.[1][2]

All of this terminology derives from Latin. "Subtraction" is an English word derived from the Latin verb subtrahere, which is in turn a compound of sub "from under" and trahere "to pull"; thus to subtract is to draw from below, take away.[3] Using the gerundive suffix -nd results in "subtrahend", "thing to be subtracted".[a] Likewise from minuere "to reduce or diminish", one gets "minuend", "thing to be diminished".

Imagine a line segment of length b with the left end labeled a and the right end labeled c. Starting from a, it takes b steps to the right to reach c. This movement to the right is modeled mathematically by addition:

a + b = c.
From c, it takes b steps to the left to get back to a. This movement to the left is modeled by subtraction:

c − b = a.

Now, a line segment labeled with the numbers 1, 2, and 3. From position 3, it takes no steps to the left to stay at 3, so 3 − 0 = 3. It takes 2 steps to the left to get to position 1, so 3 − 2 = 1. This picture is inadequate to describe what would happen after going 3 steps to the left of position 3. To represent such an operation, the line must be extended.

To subtract arbitrary natural numbers, one begins with a line containing every natural number (0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, ...). From 3, it takes 3 steps to the left to get to 0, so 3 − 3 = 0. But 3 − 4 is still invalid since it again leaves the line. The natural numbers are not a useful context for subtraction.

The solution is to consider the integer number line (..., −3, −2, −1, 0, 1, 2, 3, ...). From 3, it takes 4 steps to the left to get to −1:

3 − 4 = −1.

Subtraction of natural numbers is not closed. The difference is not a natural number unless the minuend is greater than or equal to the subtrahend. For example, 26 cannot be subtracted from 11 to give a natural number. Such a case uses one of two approaches:

Say that 26 cannot be subtracted from 11; subtraction becomes a partial function.
Give the answer as an integer representing a negative number, so the result of subtracting 26 from 11 is −15.

Subtraction of real numbers is defined as addition of signed numbers. Specifically, a number is subtracted by adding its additive inverse. Then we have 3 − π = 3 + (−π). This helps to keep the ring of real numbers "simple" by avoiding the introduction of "new" operators such as subtraction. Ordinarily a ring only has two operations defined on it; in the case of the integers, these are addition and multiplication. A ring already has the concept of additive inverses, but it does not have any notion of a separate subtraction operation, so the use of signed addition as subtraction allows us to apply the ring axioms to subtraction without needing to prove anything.

Subtraction is anti-commutative, meaning that if one reverses the terms in a difference left-to-right, the result is the negative of the original result. Symbolically, if a and b are any two numbers, then

a − b = −(b − a).

Subtraction is non-associative, which comes up when one tries to define repeated subtraction. Should the expression

"a − b − c"
be defined to mean (a − b) − c or a − (b − c)? These two possibilities give different answers. To resolve this issue, one must establish an order of operations, with different orders giving different results.

In the context of integers, subtraction of one also plays a special role: for any integer a, the integer (a − 1) is the largest integer less than a, also known as the predecessor of a.

When subtracting two numbers with units of measurement such as kilograms or pounds, they must have the same unit. In most cases the difference will have the same unit as the original numbers.

Changes in percentages can be reported in at least two forms, percentage change and percentage point change. Percentage change represents the relative change between the two quantities as a percentage, while percentage point change is simply the number obtained by subtracting the two percentages.[4][5][6]

As an example, suppose that 30% of widgets made in a factory are defective. Six months later, 20% of widgets are defective. The percentage change is 
20% − 30%
/
30%
 = −
1
/
3
 = −33+
1
/
3
%, while the percentage point change is −10 percentage points.

The method of complements is a technique used to subtract one number from another using only addition of positive numbers. This method was commonly used in mechanical calculators and is still used in modern computers.

Binary
digit	Ones'
complement
0	1
1	0
To subtract a binary number y (the subtrahend) from another number x (the minuend), the ones' complement of y is added to x and one is added to the sum. The leading digit "1" of the result is then discarded.

The method of complements is especially useful in binary (radix 2) since the ones' complement is very easily obtained by inverting each bit (changing "0" to "1" and vice versa). And adding 1 to get the two's complement can be done by simulating a carry into the least significant bit.

Methods used to teach subtraction to elementary school vary from country to country, and within a country, different methods are in fashion at different times. In what is, in the United States, called traditional mathematics, a specific process is taught to students at the end of the 1st year or during the 2nd year for use with multi-digit whole numbers, and is extended in either the fourth or fifth grade to include decimal representations of fractional numbers.

Almost all American schools currently teach a method of subtraction using borrowing or regrouping (the decomposition algorithm) and a system of markings called crutches.[7][8] Although a method of borrowing had been known and published in textbooks previously, the use of crutches in American schools spread after William A. Brownell published a study claiming that crutches were beneficial to students using this method.[9] This system caught on rapidly, displacing the other methods of subtraction in use in America at that time.

Some European schools employ a method of subtraction called the Austrian method, also known as the additions method. There is no borrowing in this method. There are also crutches (markings to aid memory), which vary by country.[10][11]

Both these methods break up the subtraction as a process of one digit subtractions by place value. Starting with a least significant digit, a subtraction of subtrahend:

sj sj−1 ... s1
from minuend

mk mk−1 ... m1,
where each si and mi is a digit, proceeds by writing down m1 − s1, m2 − s2, and so forth, as long as si does not exceed mi. Otherwise, mi is increased by 10 and some other digit is modified to correct for this increase. The American method corrects by attempting to decrease the minuend digit mi+1 by one (or continuing the borrow leftwards until there is a non-zero digit from which to borrow). The European method corrects by increasing the subtrahend digit si+1 by one.

Example: 704 − 512.

The minuend is 704, the subtrahend is 512. The minuend digits are m3 = 7, m2 = 0 and m1 = 4. The subtrahend digits are s3 = 5, s2 = 1 and s1 = 2. Beginning at the one's place, 4 is not less than 2 so the difference 2 is written down in the result's one's place. In the ten's place, 0 is less than 1, so the 0 is increased by 10, and the difference with 1, which is 9, is written down in the ten's place. The American method corrects for the increase of ten by reducing the digit in the minuend's hundreds place by one. That is, the 7 is struck through and replaced by a 6. The subtraction then proceeds in the hundreds place, where 6 is not less than 5, so the difference is written down in the result's hundred's place. We are now done, the result is 192.

The Austrian method does not reduce the 7 to 6. Rather it increases the subtrahend hundred's digit by one. A small mark is made near or below this digit (depending on the school). Then the subtraction proceeds by asking what number when increased by 1, and 5 is added to it, makes 7. The answer is 1, and is written down in the result's hundred's place.

There is an additional subtlety in that the student always employs a mental subtraction table in the American method. The Austrian method often encourages the student to mentally use the addition table in reverse. In the example above, rather than adding 1 to 5, getting 6, and subtracting that from 7, the student is asked to consider what number, when increased by 1, and 5 is added to it, makes 7.10 (ten) is an even natural number following 9 and preceding 11. Ten is the base of the decimal numeral system, by far the most common system of denoting numbers in both spoken and written language. The reason for the choice of ten is assumed to be that humans have ten fingers (digits). A collection of ten items (most often ten years) is called a decade. The ordinal adjective is decimal; the distributive adjective is denary. Increasing a quantity by one order of magnitude is most widely understood to mean multiplying the quantity by ten. To reduce something by one tenth is to decimate. (In ancient Rome, the killing of one in ten soldiers in a cohort was the punishment for cowardice or mutiny; or, one-tenth of the able-bodied men in a village as a form of retribution, thus causing a labor shortage and threat of starvation in agrarian societies.) Ten is used as a theoretical highest number in topics that require a rating ("a mark out of ten"), by contrast having 0 or 1 as the lowest number, and 5 being average. Ten is a composite number with 4 divisors, its proper divisors being 1, 2 and 5. Ten is the smallest noncototient, a number that cannot be expressed as the difference between any integer and the total number of coprimes below it. Ten is the second discrete semiprime (2 × 5) and the second member of the (2 × q) discrete semiprime family. Ten has an aliquot sum σ(n) of 8 and is accordingly the first discrete semiprime to be in deficit. All subsequent discrete semiprimes are in deficit. The aliquot sequence for 10 comprises five members (10,8,7,1,0) with this number being the second composite member of the 7-aliquot tree. Ten is the smallest semiprime that is the sum of all the distinct prime numbers from its lower factor through its higher factor (10 = 2 + 3 + 5 = 2 . 5) Only three other small semiprimes (39, 155, and 371) share this attribute. Ten is a semi-meandric number. Ten is the sum of the first three prime numbers, of the four first positive integers (1 + 2 + 3 + 4), of the square of the two first odd numbers and also of the first four factorials (0! + 1! + 2! + 3!). Ten is the eighth Perrin number, preceded in the sequence by 5, 5, 7. A polygon with ten sides is a decagon, and 10 is a decagonal number. Because 10 is the product of a power of 2 (namely 21) with nothing but distinct Fermat primes (specifically 5), a regular decagon is a constructible polygon. Ten is also a triangular number, a centered triangular number, and a tetrahedral number. Ten is the number of n queens problem solutions for n = 5. Ten is the smallest number whose status as a possible friendly number is unknown. Ten factorial seconds is exactly equal to 6 weeks. According to a conjecture, ten is the average sum of the proper divisors of the natural numbers if the size of the numbers approaches infinity (sequence A297575 in the OEIS). Ten is the smallest number whose fourth power can be written as a sum of two squares in two different ways. (802 + 602 and 962 + 282) As is the case for any base in its system, ten is the first two-digit number in decimal and thus the lowest number where the position of a numeral affects its value. Any integer written in the decimal system can be multiplied by ten by adding a zero to the end (e.g. 855 × 10 = 8550). The Roman numeral for ten is X (which looks like two Vs [the Roman numeral for 5] put together); it is thought that the V for five is derived from an open hand (five digits displayed), and X for ten from both hands. Incidentally, the Chinese word numeral for ten, is also a cross: 十. The digit '1' followed by '0' is how the value of p is written in base p. (E.g. 16 in hexadecimal is 10.)30 (thirty) is the natural number following 29 and preceding 31. Thirty is the sum of the first four squares, which makes it a square pyramidal number. It is a primorial. 30 is the smallest sphenic number, and the smallest of the form 2 × 3 × r, where r is a prime greater than 3. 30 has an aliquot sum of 42; the second sphenic number and all sphenic numbers of this form have an aliquot sum 12 greater than themselves. Adding up some subsets of its divisors (e.g., 5, 10 and 15) gives 30, hence 30 is a semiperfect number. 30 is the largest number such that all coprimes smaller than itself, except for 1, are prime. A polygon with thirty sides is called a triacontagon. The icosahedron and the dodecahedron are Platonic solids with 30 edges. The icosidodecahedron is an Archimedean solid with 30 vertices, and the Tutte–Coxeter graph is a symmetric graph with 30 vertices. E8 has Coxeter number 30. 30 is a Harshad number. Since any group G such that |G| = pnm, where p does not divide m, has a subgroup of order pn, and 30 is the only number less than 60 that is not either a prime or of the above form, it is the only candidate for the order of a simple group less than 60 that one needs other methods to reject.1000 or one thousand is the natural number following 999 and preceding 1001. In most English-speaking countries, it is often written with a comma separating the thousands unit: 1,000.

It may also be described as the short thousand in historical discussion of medieval contexts where it might be confused with the Germanic concept of the "long thousand" (1200).

The decimal representation for one thousand is
1000—a one followed by three zeros, in the general notation ;
1 × 103—in engineering notation, which for this number coincides with :
1 × 103 exactly—in scientific normalized exponential notation ;
1 E+3 exactly—in scientific E notation.
The SI prefix for a thousand units is "kilo-", abbreviated to "k"—for instance, a kilometre or "km" is a thousand metres.
In the SI writing style, a non-breaking space can be used as a thousands separator, i.e., to separate the digits of a number at every power of 1000.
Multiples of thousands are occasionally represented by replacing their last three zeros with the letter "K": for instance, writing "$30K" for $30 000, or denoting the Y2K computer bug of the year 2000.
A thousand units of currency, especially dollars or pounds, are colloquially called a grand, which can be abbreviated with a "G" suffix.

1000 is a Harshad number in base 10.
The sum of Euler's totient function over the first 57 integers is 1000.
Prime Curios! mentions that 1000 is the smallest number that generates three primes in the fastest way possible by concatenation of decremented numbers (1 000 999, 1 000 999 998 997, and 1 000 999 998 997 996 995 994 993 are prime). The criterion excludes counting the number itself.3 (three) is a number, numeral, and glyph. It is the natural number following 2 and preceding 4, and is the smallest odd prime number. It has religious or cultural significance in many societies. 3 is a rough approximation of π (3.1415...) and a very rough approximation of e (2.71828..) when doing quick estimates. The number of non-collinear points needed to determine a plane and a circle, the first odd prime number and the second smallest prime, the first Fermat prime (22n + 1), the first Mersenne prime (2n − 1), the second Sophie Germain prime, the second Mersenne prime exponent, the second factorial prime (2! + 1), the second Lucas prime, the second triangular number. It is the only prime triangular number, the fourth Fibonacci number, the smallest number of sides that a simple (non-self-intersecting) polygon can have. Three is the only prime which is one less than a perfect square. Any other number which is n2 − 1 for some integer n is not prime, since it is (n − 1)(n + 1). This is true for 3 as well (with n = 2), but in this case the smaller factor is 1. If n is greater than 2, both n − 1 and n + 1 are greater than 1 so their product is not prime. A natural number is divisible by three if the sum of its digits in base 10 is divisible by 3. For example, the number 21 is divisible by three (3 times 7) and the sum of its digits is 2 + 1 = 3. Because of this, the reverse of any number that is divisible by three (or indeed, any permutation of its digits) is also divisible by three. For instance, 1368 and its reverse 8631 are both divisible by three (and so are 1386, 3168, 3186, 3618, etc.). See also Divisibility rule. This works in base 10 and in any positional numeral system whose base divided by three leaves a remainder of one (bases 4, 7, 10, etc.). Three of the five Platonic solids have triangular faces – the tetrahedron, the octahedron, and the icosahedron. Also, three of the five Platonic solids have vertices where three faces meet – the tetrahedron, the hexahedron (cube), and the dodecahedron. Furthermore, only three different types of polygons comprise the faces of the five Platonic solids – the triangle, the square, and the pentagon. There are only three distinct 4×4 panmagic squares. According to Pythagoras and the Pythagorean school, the number 3, which they called triad, is the noblest of all digits, as it is the only number to equal the sum of all the terms below it, and the only number whose sum with those below equals the product of them and itself. The trisection of the angle was one of the three famous problems of antiquity. Gauss proved that every integer is the sum of at most 3 triangular numbers. There is some evidence to suggest that early man may have used counting systems which consisted of "One, Two, Three" and thereafter "Many" to describe counting limits. Early peoples had a word to describe the quantities of one, two, and three but any quantity beyond was simply denoted as "Many". This is most likely based on the prevalence of this phenomenon among people in such disparate regions as the deep Amazon and Borneo jungles, where western civilization's explorers have historical records of their first encounters with these indigenous people.20 (twenty) is the natural number following 19 and preceding 21. A group of twenty units may also be referred to as a score. 20 is a tetrahedral number as 1, 4, 10, 20. 20 is the basis for vigesimal number systems. 20 is the third composite number to be the product of a squared prime and a prime, and also the second member of the (22)q family in this form. 20 is the smallest primitive abundant number. An icosahedron has 20 faces. A dodecahedron has 20 vertices. 20 can be written as the sum of three Fibonacci numbers uniquely, i.e. 20 = 13 + 5 + 2. The product of the number of divisors and the number of proper divisors of 20 is exactly 20. 20 is the number of moves (quarter or half turns) required to optimally solve a Rubik's Cube in the worst case.2 (two) is a number, numeral, and glyph. It is the natural number following 1 and preceding 3. It is the smallest and only even prime number. Because it forms the basis of a duality, it has religious and spiritual significance in many cultures. An integer is called even if it is divisible by 2. For integers written in a numeral system based on an even number, such as decimal, hexadecimal, or in any other base that is even, divisibility by 2 is easily tested by merely looking at the last digit. If it is even, then the whole number is even. In particular, when written in the decimal system, all multiples of 2 will end in 0, 2, 4, 6, or 8. Two is the smallest prime number, and the only even prime number (for this reason it is sometimes called "the oddest prime"). The next prime is three. Two and three are the only two consecutive prime numbers. 2 is the first Sophie Germain prime, the first factorial prime, the first Lucas prime, and the first Ramanujan prime. Two is the third (or fourth) Fibonacci number. Two is the base of the binary system, the numeral system with the fewest tokens allowing to denote a natural number n substantially more concise (log2 n tokens), compared to a direct representation by the corresponding count of a single token (n tokens). This binary number system is used extensively in computing. For any number x: x + x = 2 · x addition to multiplication x · x = x2 multiplication to exponentiation xx = x↑↑2 exponentiation to tetration. Extending this sequence of operations by introducing the notion of hyperoperations, here denoted by "hyper(a,b,c)" with a and c being the first and second operand, and b being the level in the above sketched sequence of operations, the following holds in general: hyper(x,n,x) = hyper(x,(n + 1),2). Two has therefore the unique property that 2 + 2 = 2 · 2 = 22 = 2↑↑2 = 2↑↑↑2 = ..., disregarding the level of the hyperoperation, here denoted by Knuth's up-arrow notation. The number of up-arrows refers to the level of the hyperoperation. Two is the only number x such that the sum of the reciprocals of the powers of x equals itself. In symbols, Powers of two are central to the concept of Mersenne primes, and important to computer science. Two is the first Mersenne prime exponent. Taking the square root of a number is such a common mathematical operation, that the spot on the root sign where the exponent would normally be written for cubic and other roots, may simply be left blank for square roots, as it is tacitly understood. The square root of 2 was the first known irrational number. The smallest field has two elements. In a set-theoretical construction of the natural numbers, 2 is identified with the set {{∅},∅}. This latter set is important in category theory: it is a subobject classifier in the category of sets. Two also has the unique property such that In any n-dimensional, euclidean space two distinct points determine a line. For any polyhedron homeomorphic to a sphere, the Euler characteristic is χ = V − E + F = 2, where V is the number of vertices, E is the number of edges, and F is the number of faces.0 (zero) is a number, and the numerical digit used to represent that number in numerals. It fulfills a central role in mathematics as the additive identity of the integers, real numbers, and many other algebraic structures. As a digit, 0 is used as a placeholder in place value systems. Names for the number 0 in English include zero, nought (UK), naught (US) (/nɔːt/), nil, or—in contexts where at least one adjacent digit distinguishes it from the letter "O"—oh or o (/oʊ/). Informal or slang terms for zero include zilch and zip. Ought and aught (/ɔːt/), as well as cipher, have also been used historically. The word zero came into the English language via French zéro from Italian zero, Italian contraction of Venetian zevero form of Italian zefiro via ṣafira or ṣifr. In pre-Islamic time the word ṣifr (Arabic صفر) had the meaning "empty". Sifr evolved to mean zero when it was used to translate śūnya (Sanskrit: शून्य) from India. The first known English use of zero was in 1598. The Italian mathematician Fibonacci (c. 1170–1250), who grew up in North Africa and is credited with introducing the decimal system to Europe, used the term zephyrum. This became zefiro in Italian, and was then contracted to zero in Venetian. The Italian word zefiro was already in existence (meaning "west wind" from Latin and Greek zephyrus) and may have influenced the spelling when transcribing Arabic ṣifr. Depending on the context, there may be different words used for the number zero (or the concept of zero). For the simple notion of lacking, the words nothing and none are often used. Sometimes, the words nought, naught and aught are used. Several sports have specific words for a score of zero, such as love in tennis and duck in cricket; nil is used for many sports in British English. It is often called oh in the context of telephone numbers. Slang words for zero include zip, zilch, nada, and scratch. Duck egg and goose egg are also slang for zero. 0 is the integer immediately preceding 1. Zero is an even number because it is divisible by 2 with no remainder. 0 is neither positive nor negative. Many definitions include 0 as a natural number, in which case it is the only natural number that is not positive. Zero is a number which quantifies a count or an amount of null size. In most cultures, 0 was identified before the idea of negative things (i.e., quantities less than zero) was accepted. As a value or a number, zero is not the same as the digit zero, used in numeral systems with positional notation. Successive positions of digits have higher weights, so the digit zero is used inside a numeral to skip a position and give appropriate weights to the preceding and following digits. A zero digit is not always necessary in a positional number system (e.g., the number 02). In some instances, a leading zero may be used to distinguish a number. The number 0 is the smallest non-negative integer. The natural number following 0 is 1 and no natural number precedes 0. The number 0 may or may not be considered a natural number, but it is an integer, and hence a rational number and a real number (as well as an algebraic number and a complex number). The number 0 is neither positive nor negative, and is usually displayed as the central number in a number line. It is neither a prime number nor a composite number. It cannot be prime because it has an infinite number of factors, and cannot be composite because it cannot be expressed as a product of prime numbers (as 0 must always be one of the factors). Zero is, however, even (i.e. a multiple of 2, as well as being a multiple of any other integer, rational, or real number). The following are some basic (elementary) rules for dealing with the number 0. These rules apply for any real or complex number x, unless otherwise stated. The sum of 0 numbers (the empty sum) is 0, and the product of 0 numbers (the empty product) is 1. The factorial 0! evaluates to 1, as a special case of the empty product. The value zero plays a special role for many physical quantities. For some quantities, the zero level is naturally distinguished from all other levels, whereas for others it is more or less arbitrarily chosen. For example, for an absolute temperature (as measured in kelvins), zero is the lowest possible value (negative temperatures are defined, but negative-temperature systems are not actually colder). This is in contrast to for example temperatures on the Celsius scale, where zero is arbitrarily defined to be at the freezing point of water. Measuring sound intensity in decibels or phons, the zero level is arbitrarily set at a reference value—for example, at a value for the threshold of hearing. In physics, the zero-point energy is the lowest possible energy that a quantum mechanical physical system may possess and is the energy of the ground state of the system. Zero has been proposed as the atomic number of the theoretical element tetraneutron. It has been shown that a cluster of four neutrons may be stable enough to be considered an atom in its own right. This would create an element with no protons and no charge on its nucleus. As early as 1926, Andreas von Antropoff coined the term neutronium for a conjectured form of matter made up of neutrons with no protons, which he placed as the chemical element of atomic number zero at the head of his new version of the periodic table. It was subsequently placed as a noble gas in the middle of several spiral representations of the periodic system for classifying the chemical elements. The most common practice throughout human history has been to start counting at one, and this is the practice in early classic computer programming languages such as Fortran and COBOL. However, in the late 1950s LISP introduced zero-based numbering for arrays while Algol 58 introduced completely flexible basing for array subscripts (allowing any positive, negative, or zero integer as base for array subscripts), and most subsequent programming languages adopted one or other of these positions. For example, the elements of an array are numbered starting from 0 in C, so that for an array of n items the sequence of array indices runs from 0 to n−1. This permits an array element's location to be calculated by adding the index directly to address of the array, whereas 1-based languages precalculate the array's base address to be the position one element before the first.[citation needed] There can be confusion between 0- and 1-based indexing, for example Java's JDBC indexes parameters from 1 although Java itself uses 0-based indexing.[citation needed] In databases, it is possible for a field not to have a value. It is then said to have a null value. For numeric fields it is not the value zero. For text fields this is not blank nor the empty string. The presence of null values leads to three-valued logic. No longer is a condition either true or false, but it can be undetermined. Any computation including a null value delivers a null result.[citation needed] A null pointer is a pointer in a computer program that does not point to any object or function. In C, the integer constant 0 is converted into the null pointer at compile time when it appears in a pointer context, and so 0 is a standard way to refer to the null pointer in code. However, the internal representation of the null pointer may be any bit pattern (possibly different values for different data types).[citation needed] In mathematics −0 = +0 = 0; both −0 and +0 represent exactly the same number, i.e., there is no "positive zero" or "negative zero" distinct from zero. However, in some computer hardware signed number representations, zero has two distinct representations, a positive one grouped with the positive numbers and a negative one grouped with the negatives; this kind of dual representation is known as signed zero, with the latter form sometimes called negative zero. These representations include the signed magnitude and one's complement binary integer representations (but not the two's complement binary form used in most modern computers), and most floating point number representations (such as IEEE 754 and IBM S/390 floating point formats). In binary, 0 represents the value for "off", which means no electricity flow. Zero is the value of false in many programming languages. The Unix epoch (the date and time associated with a zero timestamp) begins the midnight before the first of January 1970. The MacOS epoch and Palm OS epoch (the date and time associated with a zero timestamp) begins the midnight before the first of January 1904. Many APIs and operating systems that require applications to return an integer value as an exit status typically use zero to indicate success and non-zero values to indicate specific error or warning conditions. In mathematics, trailing zeros are a sequence of 0 in the decimal representation (or more generally, in any positional representation) of a number, after which no other digits follow. Trailing zeros to the right of a decimal point, as in 12.3400, do not affect the value of a number and may be omitted if all that is of interest is its numerical value. This is true even if the zeros recur infinitely. For example, in pharmacy, trailing zeros are omitted from dose values to prevent misreading. However, trailing zeros may be useful for indicating the number of significant figures, for example in a measurement. In such a context, "simplifying" a number by removing trailing zeros would be incorrect. The number of trailing zeros in a non-zero base-b integer n equals the exponent of the highest power of b that divides n. For example, 14000 has three trailing zeros and is therefore divisible by 1000 = 103, but not by 104. This property is useful when looking for small factors in integer factorization. Some computer architectures have a count trailing zeros operation in their instruction set for efficiently determining the number of trailing zero bits in a machine word. The number of trailing zeros in the decimal representation of n!, the factorial of a non-negative integer n, is simply the multiplicity of the prime factor 5 in n!. This can be determined with this special case of de Polignac's formula: The formula actually counts the number of factors 5 in n!, but since there are at least as many factors 2, this is equivalent to the number of factors 10, each of which gives one more trailing zero. This can be used to simplify the computation of the terms of the summation, which can be stopped as soon as q i reaches zero. The condition 5k+1 > n is equivalent to q k+1 = 0. A leading zero is any 0 digit that comes before the first nonzero digit in a number string in positional notation. For example, James Bond's famous identifier, 007, has two leading zeros. When leading zeros occupy the most significant digits of an integer, they could be left blank or omitted for the same numeric value. Therefore, the usual decimal notation of integers does not use leading zeros except for the zero itself, which would be denoted as an empty string otherwise. However, in decimal fractions strictly between −1 and 1, the leading zeros digits between the decimal point and the first nonzero digit are necessary for conveying the magnitude of a number and cannot be omitted, while trailing zeros – zeros occurring after the decimal point and after the last nonzero digit – can be omitted without changing the meaning. Often, leading zeros are found on non-electronic digital displays or on such electronic ones as seven-segment displays, that contain fixed sets of digits. These devices include manual counters, stopwatches, odometers, and digital clocks. Leading zeros are also generated by many older computer programs when creating values to assign to new records, accounts and other files, and as such are likely to be used by utility billing systems, human resources information systems and government databases. Many digital cameras and other electronic media recording devices use leading zeros when creating and saving new files to make names of the equal length. Leading zeros also present whenever the number of digits is technically fixed (such as in a memory register), but the stored value is not large enough to result in a non-zero most significant digit. The count leading zeros operation efficiently determines the number of leading zero bits in a machine word. A leading zero appears in roulette in the United States, where "00" is distinct from "0" (a wager on "0" will not win if the ball lands in "00", and vice versa). Sports where competitors are numbered follow this as well; a stock car numbered "07" would be considered distinct from one numbered "7". Benito Santiago, a Major League Baseball catcher who wore the number 09 for several years, is the only major professional sports league player to use a jersey number with a leading zero, not counting several who have worn the number 00 (in Santiago's case, Major League Baseball did not distinguish his 09 number from the ordinary number 9; he wore the extra zero to avoid complications with his catcher's pads, allowing the back strap to run between the numbers instead of over a single digit 9). This is most common with single-digit numbers. Leading zeros are used to make ascending order of numbers correspond with alphabetical order: e.g., 11 comes alphabetically before 2, but after 02. (See, e.g., ISO 8601.) This does not work with negative numbers, though, whether leading zeros are used or not: −23 comes alphabetically after −01, −1, and −22, although it is less than all of them. Leading zeros in a sentence also make it less likely that a careless reader will overlook the decimal point. For example, in modern pharmacy there is a widely followed convention that leading zeros must not be omitted from any dose or dosage value in drug prescribing. Likewise, just as leading zeros are mandatory, trailing zeros are forbidden. In both cases, the reason is the same: to prevent misreading and the resultant misdose by one or several orders of magnitude. Leading zeros can also be used to prevent fraud by filling in character positions that might normally be empty. For example, adding leading zeros to the amount of a check (or similar financial document) makes it more difficult for fraudsters to alter the amount of the check before presenting it for payment. A prefix 0 is used in C to specify string representations of octal numbers, as required by the ANSI C standard for the "strtol" function (the string to long integer converter) in the "stdlib.h" library. Many other programming languages, such as Python 2, Perl, Ruby, PHP, and the Unix shell bash also follow this specification for converting strings to numbers. As an example, "0020" does not represent 2010 (2×101 + 0×100), but rather 208 = 1610 (2×81 + 0×80 = 1×101 + 6×100). Decimal numbers written with leading zeros will be interpreted as octal by languages that follow this convention and will generate errors (not just unexpected results) if they contain "8" or "9", since these digits do not exist in octal. This behavior can be quite a nuisance when working with sequences of strings with embedded, zero-padded decimal numbers (typically file names) to facilitate alphabetical sorting (see above) or when validating inputs from users who would not know that adding a leading zero triggers this base conversion.