6 (six) is the natural number following 5 and preceding 7. It is a composite number and the smallest perfect number. 6 is the smallest positive integer which is neither a square number nor a prime number. Six is the second smallest composite number; its proper divisors are 1, 2 and 3. Since six equals the sum of its proper divisors, six is the smallest perfect number, Granville number, and ss a perfect number: 6 is related to the Mersenne prime 3, since 21(22 – 1) = 6. (The next perfect number is 28.) 6 is the only even perfect number that is not the sum of successive odd cubes. 6 is the root of the 6-aliquot tree, and is itself the aliquot sum of only one number; the square number, 25. Six is the only number that is both the sum and the product of three consecutive positive numbers. Unrelated to 6 being a perfect number, a Golomb ruler of length 6 is a "perfect ruler". Six is a congruent number. Six is the first discrete biprime (2 × 3) and the first member of the (2 × q) discrete biprime family. Six is a unitary perfect number, a primary pseudoperfect number, a harmonic divisor number and a superior highly composite number, the last to also be a primorial. There are no Graeco-Latin squares with order 6. If n is a natural number that is not 2 or 6, then there is a Graeco-Latin square with order n. There is not a prime p such that the multiplicative order of 2 modulo p is 6, that is, ordp(2) = 6. By Zsigmondy's theorem, if n is a natural number that is not 1 or 6, then there is a prime p such that ordp(2) = n. See A112927 for such p. The ring of integer of the sixth cyclotomic field Q(ζ6) , which is called Eisenstein integer, has 6 units: ±1, ±ω, ±ω2, where the smallest non-abelian group is the symmetric group S3 which has 3! = 6 elements. S6, with 720 elements, is the only finite symmetric group which has an outer automorphism. This automorphism allows us to construct a number of exceptional mathematical objects such as the S(5,6,12) Steiner system, the projective plane of order 4 and the Hoffman-Singleton graph. A closely related result is the following theorem: 6 is the only natural number n for which there is a construction of n isomorphic objects on an n-set A, invariant under all permutations of A, but not naturally in one-to-one correspondence with the elements of A. This can also be expressed category theoretically: consider the category whose objects are the n element sets and whose arrows are the bijections between the sets. This category has a non-trivial functor to itself only for n = 6. Six similar coins can be arranged around a central coin of the same radius so that each coin makes contact with the central one (and touches both its neighbors without a gap), but seven cannot be so arranged. This makes 6 the answer to the two-dimensional kissing number problem. The densest sphere packing of the plane is obtained by extending this pattern to the hexagonal lattice in which each circle touches just six others. 6 is the largest of the four all-Harshad numbers. A six-sided polygon is a hexagon, one of the three regular polygons capable of tiling the plane. Figurate numbers representing hexagons (including six) are called hexagonal numbers. Because 6 is the product of a power of 2 (namely 21) with nothing but distinct Fermat primes (specifically 3), a regular hexagon is a constructible polygon. Six is also an octahedral number. It is a triangular number and so is its square (36). There are six basic trigonometric functions. There are six convex regular polytopes in four dimensions. The six exponentials theorem guarantees (given the right conditions on the exponents) the transcendence of at least one of a set of exponentials. All primes above 3 are of the form 6n ± 1 for n ≥ 1.